Oct 15, 2014
Halloween - Half in the Bag Commentary Track
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/522520800675377152
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10152446451542634
https://redlettermedia.bandcamp.com/track/halloween-half-in-the-bag-commentary-track

happy Halloween everyone I'm Jay and I'm
Mike and I'm rich Evans and we're gonna
watch Halloween John Carpenter is
classic Halloween it's a grab your
pumpkin beer and candy corn that's right
rich do you have your candy corn and/or
pumpkin beer no I don't have either of
those things I'm being offered some
candy corns on them I'm refusing because
by mysterious force that candy corn come
from Nancy Loomis as an as as what is it
saying
Annie Brecon yeah this is dr. Loomis
yeah yeah that's a weird coincidence
that yeah Sam Loomis Sam Loomis is
Donald Pleasence which is a reference to
psycho and then they cast an actress
whose actual last name is Loomis
shocking any Annie Brackett is the one
that ends up without pants at a certain
point in the movie Oh Dean condi this is
this was a horrible shock to me the
other day I was looking up Dean condi
because I was watching this and
Halloween too it's like man these are
some good-looking movies the
cinematography is great and I knew he
went on to do the Back to the Future
movies he did Jurassic Park
Apollo 13 all these big movies I was
like what's he done lately I looked him
up you know what he did wait tell us in
a second do you know anything about cool
Lusby I do not I want my first name to
be cool okay oh oh is that a credit
that's that cool let's be loves el-usb
why yeah yeah okay anyway can do that's
a pretty great name um oh yeah so Dean
Deborah Hill a producer on aliens I
don't think so Walter Hill mmm Deborah
Hill co-wrote this with John Carpenter
they were they were an item at the time
I hadn't filled Illinois as a fictional
town but hadn't filled Illinois is not a
real place no and this was clearly Shawn
California but continue with your Dean
Dean kunde story oh yeah well Dean come
to you what do you what kind of you know
what do you think he'd be up to these
days as someone that's worked on such
huge it's
back of the future in Jurassic Park
don't oj he did Jack and Jill it's a
long way down Jay I know that was
shocking to me Jack and Jill the
Garfield nunchuck that Jack and Jill
even had a cinematographer oh yeah I
thought that whole movie was shot on a
cell phone although working on an Adam
Sandler production means you got paid
that's true I guess that's he decided
that he was tired of doing creative work
good
cinematic looking material and he would
just point a softbox at someone and sit
back and collect his paycheck have you
considered that maybe he couldn't adapt
to green screens like maybe he's such a
good cinematographer that he couldn't
handle framing up a shot that's just two
people in front of a green wall
oh that's entirely possible well instead
of making fun of Adam Sandler we
probably should be talking about the
groundbreaking Steadicam one take shot
that yes movie opens with although it's
not actually one take is a couple
several breaks in it yes but it's still
very impressive even though you see the
the shadow of the camera in a couple
parts coming up here now I might be
wrong but it wasn't the study cam
invented on this movie no it was I think
the I could be wrong i think the first
movie to use the Steadicam was rocky one
of the very early ones and technically
this movie is not the Steadicam
yes it's panavision's version of it it's
called the Panna Glide
okay it was less sort of their attempt
to make a Steadicam and it's very
impressive I mean that's what makes this
movie is the visuals yeah and the
flowing camerawork it's very dreamlike
right right I think it should be pointed
out when you know and I said a lot of
people and you're you're the mr. blinken
review for Revenge of the Sith mm-hmm
you complained about that opening shot I
think people think you're complaining
about the CGI and not the fact that it's
one continuous shot and that's not a big
deal because it was CGI
oh right yeah yeah it was nothing like
this but when you're when you're working
with real people and you don't have
digital effects like getting just one
continuous shot of something and having
everything go right and everybody
doesn't fuck up our line look in the
corner here on the right
oh fuck I missed it it must've been an
earlier shot when he went through the
other door you can see the shadow of the
camera maybe maybe maybe they fixed it
no they didn't I I know it's in here
well I see your sandwich I mean it's
indefinitely more impressive in what is
this 1978 yes oh wait there it is yeah
when they didn't have you know digital
tools to erase and fast yes because this
was I watched a documentary about this
and this was like okay now we're going
up the stairs the one the camera panned
over to the right somebody ran up the
stairs real quick in order to go flip
this light on yeah and right now on the
bottom of the stairs are readjusting all
the lights for when he comes back down
the stairs right this is yeah it's
complicated technical stuff everything
has to continue to go ride for like ten
minutes or however long yeah yeah well
here's here's a cut there's a kind still
impressive but I just got word that the
Steadicam was first used in the 1976
film Bound for Glory oh it was not it
was not rocking I know it was one of the
early ones very close so Jay you were
dead wrong dead wrong well that's the
first time that's ever happened and this
the the hands of little Michael Myers
here are Deborah Hills hands the
co-writer that's grabbing her boobs that
that's nano that's that's her own and
for some reason Michael Myers looks up
at his own hand while he stabs but
that's okay it's forgivable in the guy
yeah that was so probably someone could
splash some blood on her probably I'm in
pan back so yeah now Michael Myers has
gone back down the stairs there was I
saw I saw Edit there yeah and now the
people have readjusted all these lights
if I'm not mistaken this was an attempt
at doing it all in one shot and then
they married a couple different takes to
get yeah they couldn't quite pull it off
you know still very impressive
not to mention the fact that this house
the way the house looks in the rest of
the movie that's how the house actually
looks it was abandoned and olds and
they're gonna tear it down
right so after they shot all that stuff
they went back and cleaned the entire
place up just for this one little
sequence everything I always thought
this shot was creepy
as a kid just there just staring at it
staring yeah this this is one of those
really early memory movies for me where
you watched it a hundred times as a kid
and all these things just stick with you
yeah especially this shot imagery sticks
with you more when they hold on a shot
for more than five seconds yeah it's not
just quick cutting it doesn't happen
anymore
no this is I'm I try to picture like
younger people that have seen tons and
tons of horror movies that grew up I'm
like the Saw movies and stuff watching
this and just being bored out of their
minds oh sure cuz this is a very
slow-moving movie in a good way here we
have Donald Pleasance
good old Donald who went on to be the
best part of a continuing series that
just got worse and worse he was always
the best part because he got crazier and
crazier as the movies went along he is
overacting so much in Halloween five
it's great that was his final one right
Halloween six was this final one that's
where they okay shot the movie and it
was so terrible they went in did
reshoots but he had died by the time
they did their reshoots so they did this
really awkwardly edited ending to the
movie or he says I have some business to
attend to and then they just cut to the
Michael Myers mask on the grounds and
you hear him yell yeah off-camera I I
saw I saw that movie in the theater I
didn't - yeah I was like what yeah that
was though I think that was shortly
before scream and a revived horror
movies I remember seeing Halloween 6 and
Hellraiser bloodlines oh the fourth one
is fading yes I think and it was like no
one was in there yeah no one saw those
like the tail end of the 80s Early 90s
horror movies and then scream revived
the horror genre yeah but I remember
like they throw the mask on the ground
and you here's just some crew member
eats cool you know it is him yelling
it's audio from the original version of
the ending it just sounds like a
different person
yeah it sounds completely bullshit and
then then it cuts to black and the
credit comes up and says in memory of
Donald Pleasence it's the most
affordable way to end your career so sad
for Donald Pleasence what is the
original ending oh god it's this whole
thing with this cults and there's like
magic stones plays the grownup version
of the little kid who's being babysat
here yes yeah yeah he plays the grown-up
version of that kid any this is a creepy
image - yeah this is one of the things I
remember just these these insane asylum
patients wandering around and they're
they're that and it just goes off into
darkness and you can barely see what's
happening yeah this part creeped me out
as a kid
they're kind of funny what happened to
the Halloween series though it started
off it's just about a serial killer
Michael Myers a crazy man and then you
get genetic engineering and apparently
almost ended with cults and magic stone
yes yeah
Paul Riedel it puts the magic stones in
a circle on the ground and then when
Michael Myers walks into it he's
paralyzed that he can't move anymore
did that happen in the film that heaven
in the original ending oh okay yeah uh
yeah I was gonna say I don't remember
anything about the sixth one ya know the
cult stuff is still in there just
terrible the fifth one I think the
little girl's name was Jamie yeah and it
was or East Rhodes daughter yeah she's
in the fourth one yeah that's how the
fourth one ends or the fifth one ends I
can't recall the fourth one ends like
this one begins yeah where she's good
she's my small costume and I thought
that was an interesting ending then they
completely blew it with the next one
yeah this is yeah this is probably out
of the the big franchises of that era
like this Jason and Freddy this is
probably the worst franchise you think
so I think so because most of the
sequels are kind of bland and then they
get stupid it does like the the Friday
the 13th movies are worse but they're
more entertaining because that seriously
junk from the start that was a ripoff of
this the first Friday the 13th is just a
ripoff of Halloween really admittedly so
by Sean Cunningham yeah he said they
watched this movie they looked at all
the techniques used as far as the
camerawork goes and the killer's point
of view shots and and just did it again
but this series started off like this
shouldn't be a series this is a
standalone movie yeah it's such a simple
story crazy guy kills people because
he's crazy and that's well that's that's
why they did what they did with the
third one has nothing to do with Michael
Myers and it's about haunted whether
were they haunted masks or were they
oh man the third one is amazing maybe
we'll talk about a little bit later but
alright well this one's less about like
a quote-unquote serial killer and more
so like the embodiment of the evil right
yeah it has a it operates on a different
plain his motive is that he's pure evil
yeah sort of like the faceless killer
and I think that's what they were going
for and then and then to to make a
series out of that is contradictory to
the original idea yeah that pure evil
exists and then it's gone and that's
like okay now he's a guy we got to put
him on the truck in then it becomes a it
becomes schlock after that but not
schlocky enough I think that's the
problem those Halloween sequels are kind
of like part fours okay but I looked for
quite a bit part four has its moments
and the ending is pretty good other than
the first one part four is one is my
favorite oh yeah yeah it's almost like a
remake yeah it was sort of like part
three everybody hated yes Michael Myers
wasn't in it so like here's Michael
Myers again we're not gonna take any
risks it's just him doing his thing
barely remember what happens in - I
remember they making an extension of the
same night it ends exactly or this one
hour starts where this one ends yeah and
Lori strokes to the hospital and does
nothing for 90% of the movie takes place
sent out yeah I'll remember is she or
Donald Pleasance turns on the gas line
and lights a match and yeah Michael
Myers starts on fire yeah yeah Loomis
and Michael Myers died in an explosion
until part four when he just has a tiny
scar on his cheek and then he survives a
gas station explosion yes he's just as
adept at survive survival as Michael
Myers is fireproof
there's Tommy Doyle who would grow up to
be Paul Rudd
which reminds me you mentioned
Hellraiser bloodline yes you know who's
in that movie Adam Scott from parks and
recreation
oh is it might be his first movie he's
really young in it but yeah well these
modern comedic actors that started out
in horrible horror sequels you know they
should bring back pinhead I'm sure they
have a on home video there there's so
many pinhead sequels like
direct-to-video sequels even I stopped
paying attention to that series none
there he is there's Mike Myers broad
daylight so many creepy things and this
movie it's so simple it's like if you
want and just stripped everything down
Laurie Strode you know innocence and
Michael Myers evil and that's all
no no nothing wacky nothing crazy no
it's a killer by the full moon it's all
about the the tension and the buildup
it's not about the the kills cuz there's
very few yeah it's it's all about the
atmosphere this movie has great
atmosphere the look of this even though
was shot in Southern California so much
of it passes for the Midwest even though
he occasionally see a palm tree in the
background well I don't know I never got
the vibe that this is in the Midwest oh
really I never bothered me fall leaves
in front of the camera it's it's sort of
charming now when you watch it you see
there's a couple leaves in front of the
and they go down the block and there's
no leaves mm-hm which I guess they had
like four bags of leaves and they were
just throw them on the ground line after
each take everyone had to gather up the
leaves and put him in a bag and move
them to the next location
it was a nightmare on elm street shot oh
yeah this makes me think of that girl in
the classroom sure maybe the nightmare
and all street shots before the
Halloween shot it should this came first
yeah I just did the stillness of Michael
Myers he's just standing there there's
no musical sting or like jump-scare
stealth he's just standing there was a
shot when he's standing in the laundry
is something that always sticks out in
my memory too in the laundry there's
like laundry out to dry and I think he's
just standing in the backyard when she's
babysitting with him oh yeah yeah yeah
that's coming up in a little bit took
off in this stolen station wagon from
the mental hospital that is one weird
that there's a couple problems with this
movie what is the fact that he can drive
problems he's been incarcerated since he
was no I know middle school in the
Midwest has outdoor classroom entrance
that serves specifically a West Coast
thing the boogie man is coming the
boogie man I was so bad for him here
when his pumpkin bread yeah yeah that's
poor kid now that you're pointing these
California things out to me Mike this
movie will be ruined for me now I'm I
can't I can't unlearn that I'm aware of
all that stuff like I'll probably point
out the palm trees in the background
later on but there's still there's
something about it that like the the
color temperature looks is like it looks
like like breezy Midwest you watch over
it's very overcast looking it's yeah it
doesn't go sunny California because now
I'm picturing you know being a kid again
going to class in the middle of February
that's insane maybe everybody go outside
you get your glass-top they don't build
schools like that here no there's their
leaves that's all they got
and there he goes Michael Myers in his
car that he knows how to drive
do they explain where he gets his
jumpsuit that it's a mechanic's or is
that that specifically in for I do even
explain it before they do
that's a garage mechanic oh that's right
because he's all bandaged up but he is
there any Steel's yeah no they don't in
this it's just he just gets an outfit
this is this is why you need a prequel
remake where Rob Zombie explains that it
can for he is taking a dump and Michael
Myers punches him to death and then
steals his mechanics jumpsuit yeah
thanks that's why you need a prequel
remake prequel remake the Rob Zombie
movies so you're saying you need a
remake I haven't seen it it's a prequel
to first you know the the creepy opening
of this you see him stab his sister
that's the first 45 minutes of the movie
okay
and then the second half of the movie is
almost a scene for scene a remake of
this movie but sped up because the
movies have over oh that's the movie and
Michael Myers who lives in a crazy house
with like a drunken father yeah it's a
white trash family his mom's a stripper
it's terrifically bad yeah although I I
don't mind the first half of I was gonna
say so disconnected from Halloween the
first half where you get a little
backstory is fine as its own little
weird movie yeah if it wasn't branded
with a Halloween name on it but but then
it shifts focus to Laurie Strode and her
friends and you realize that Rob Zombie
hates teenagers because all those
characters are so horribly written yeah
they're so shrill and awful is it is it
more interesting if Michael Myers comes
from an abusive father or is it just
more interesting in filius here's a
garage the reference to the mechanic's
uniform oh okay yeah yeah no it's not
more interesting if there's all this
bags yeah I mean she's just a crazy guy
is he a normal family and yeah one day
just stabs well again it's it's a
different type of movie Michael Myers
could be in one version of it he could
be a kid who grows up in an abusive
drunken family that turns into a
psychopath
this one it's it's he's he's a person
but he's pure evil yeah and there's no
soul I'm just asking I'm asking which is
more interesting this
yeah the night I was I was asking you to
start a discussion not to be belittled
my the answer is this one yeah cuz you
know if the second half of the Rob
Zombie one went in a completely
different direction then it would be
more acceptable as its own thing it's
the fact that it's a direct remake of
this one this this film by itself this
is perfect yes it's fine
anything outside of this I'm fine with
Michael Myers as a Freddy Krueger type
comical villain just stabbing people for
no reason just for fun leave this one
alone
don't remake it yeah you know Rob Zombie
should have made Michael Myers part
eight Michael Mayer they already did
Michael Myers in space didn't there no
Michael Myers never once Jason went to
space Jason went to space leprechaun
went to space Hellraiser went to space
everyone but the astronauts have gone to
space there's no the moon landings or
faked
I find that Stanley Kubrick did it yeah
yeah
so why is it all of the horror movies go
into space when they get really
desperate that that's exactly why cuz
they're desperate
I don't know why space actually like
what makes you think Jason should go to
space
well Jason they they they ran out of
ideas entirely yes I the end Michael
Myers didn't quite I think it's just
such a simple concept you can't really
expand upon it too much no you have to
add stupid shit like he's the the pawn
of a cults but you have to keep it
grounded and somewhat of a reality yeah
Freddy and Jason you could kind of go
off the off the tracks a little yeah
especially Freddy because it's more
imaginative that's more fantasy there's
a dream dream element to it yeah
the wizard master in part three shooting
lightning bolts out of his fingers and
you can get away with that type of stuff
the only the only thing they could get
away with is in Halloween resurrection
when they did the webcams and it was
broadcast on the Internet oh yes back in
2003
yeah thousand three when the internet
was new there was a slew of horror films
based around webcams you're alive on the
internet and marine beer dot-com yes and
I remember you joking actually you might
have been because we saw Halloween 6
together our Halloween Resurrection
together yeah and I think you joked
about there should be a movie called
murder calm yeah and then a couple
months later fear calm trailer showed up
yeah
Rob Zombie could have handled like Texas
Chainsaw Massacre where it's all crazy
Hicks that are yelling all the time like
that's more appropriate but classy
classic like tension it's not his thing
more for blunt stupidity what's the
movie is it how some knee and how the
hills have eyes yeah nuclear mutated
rednecks right yes is not the plot yeah
yeah the Halloween is subtle subtlety's
not Rob Zombie's strong point here's
here's a fun little little tidbit coming
up they just saw Michael Myers peeking
out from behind the bushes yes she goes
up to look and when she turns around and
they're her reverse you see a little
wisp of smoke come by and that's
actually from John Carpenter because
he's standing right next to the camera
like chain-smoking you'll see it in a
second hair classic John Carpenter yeah
John Carpenter's cameo yeah it's like
completely on it's very subtle but is
that just the only take they had I think
so hello I guess it's subtle enough
where I never noticed it until you
pointed it out yeah I've never seen it I
never noticed it before either yeah that
could be from anything I guess if he
didn't know yeah
but he's saying there next to the camera
where's my paycheck that's not how he
sounds he's a lovely man
and I love junk oh he's a lovely man
he's a very technically minded director
did you know Rob Zombie called him to to
get his blessing I'm gonna make this is
this is Rob Zombie told the story
himself and he called up John Carpenter
he's like it's Rob Zombie I'm remaking
Halloween and John character said Who
last name zombie and he goes no Rob
Zombie you know I'm in the band Rob
Zombie white zombie right even if
they're bent John Carpenter's like I'm
in a band too yeah I mean he's like he's
like I'm remaking holily and I just want
to get your blessing in John Kirby said
okay whatever not give a flying fuck and
is this the most ripped off movie ever
made when you look at just like the glut
of slasher movies that came out there's
a great documentary called going to
pieces about the rise involved the the
80s slasher movies and it all comes from
this mm-hmm I mean the other most
successful one after this was Friday the
13th which Sean Cunningham the director
that admitted that he just stole the
formula and the style of this yeah and
his goal was to replicate its success
and it worked and then after that
there's just an endless slew of shitty
slasher movies well pardon my ignorance
because I can't I kind of remember the
first Friday of the 13th I haven't seen
it in a long time
it's boring Jason is not in it it's more
of like a psycho story like a drowned
kid and his mother's doing all the
killing right yeah it's more of a
mystery through most of the movie even
though it's not my story you could guess
but then ever it's revealed he adds
Jason's mom she's out for revenge
because their son drowned in the lake
and then how does that morph into the
next one a eight foot tall Kane Hodder
with the hockey mask on oh god it
doesn't make any sense cuz I'm the evil
the end of the first one they just
wanted a cheap jump scare even though it
makes no sense and Jason just jumps out
of the water at the end maybe the first
one in the first one the the main girl
gets away she kills Pamela Voorhees and
she's lying out in the boat in the water
and then for no reason the little Jason
the the Jason that drowned in the lake
20-some years ago jumps out of the water
and grabs her that's the end of the
movie mmm and then the second one it's
revealed that Jason now he's a grown-up
no he's an adult man has been living in
the woods for the last 20 years or it's
like so you weren't dead you didn't
drown in the lake so why did you just
hide from your mom in the woods for the
past 20 years because he's a crazy man
it doesn't nothing about that series
makes that he said this in the initial
setup of it but
but you're talking about mainly the the
style and the
yeah the like The Killers point of view
which you only see in Halloween during
the opening sequence but that was
something that they they took where he
cuz they didn't want you to see who the
killer was he just see their point of
view through the whole thing that at the
end with the final girls scene all the
bodies like falling out of you know
closets and stuff that's all directly
taken from from Halloween law the other
cliches you know the Virgin nice girl
she's got the slutty friends they all
die the people that have sex they die
that was all inadvertently started by
Halloween this this movie John Carpenter
not realized he was setting up any sort
of cliches it was just a movie he was
making mm-hmm and it turned out to be a
watershed film yeah it may be the most
ripped off movie ever yeah you know what
happens a lot of watershed movies though
they don't know they're making something
great they're just making a movie yeah
exactly
of course I mean this was just a cheap
you know producer came to him and said
we want to make a movie about
babysitters being murdered and it turned
into this and he also invert 'only
created the most iconic horror music
score ever mm-hmm classic classic score
that is I don't really hear people
ripping off the score to this I guess
it's so like it'd be hard to yeah which
is another reason I could see people
watching this now and not finding it
very interesting and they'll say oh it's
just full of all these cliches but they
didn't exist at this time yeah this
movie the star base this movie started
the cliches like like Lethal Weapon
mm-hmm yeah exactly
but here she's not that good she smokes
a doobie so she's not bad innocent this
is when they go to Michael Myers his
sister's grave and the grave has been
ripped out of the ground he really hated
his sister she must have stolen his toys
maybe she stole his Annabelle doll he
stabbed her with a butcher knife
we saw did you rip miss that part in the
remake this this gravedigger character
is played by Sid Haig which isn't
distracting at all just cast a random
nobody in that part robs don't cast all
your horror convention friends in every
role speaking of horror conventions John
Carpenter does conventions he does which
is bizarre yeah he's so laid-back and
like he doesn't care about anything
anymore it seems like it wouldn't even
bother but I saw him when we were at
Toronto Fan Expo I went to his panel it
was great he told a great story someone
asked what his thoughts were on the
remakes and he said he loves when his
movies get remade because he just puts
out his hands and a check floats down
and do it how old is he now not as old
as he looks I know that really yeah he
was I think he was 30 when he made this
movie which I always think of this as
being his first movie even though it's
not he did darkstar an assault on
precinct 13 before this but I think he
was 30 when he made this okay
not as old as I thought I'm not the
biggest John Carpenter fan I'll be
honest with you I know you're not I
think I watched assault on precinct 13
and escaped from New York not a fan of
either I think Escape from New York is
overrated
yeah oh I love that one that but but I
absolutely adore Big Trouble in Little
China yeah big trouble Mike three owe
you everything oh it's great they live
is great no John Carpenter had a guy
having quite a run the good John
Carpenter films them well a lot of
people to say escape from New York this
is a good one I think it is I love that
movie it's not a good action movie
that's the thing people talk about it as
being an action movie but there's so
little action and what action there is
is awkward and clunky I live follow all
these brown leaves are falling from the
green trees yeah
yeah that's so distracting to me now
Mike why did you point this my brain
used to be ignorant I can suspend my
disbelief for this so the the eurid the
Michael Myers house was actually moved a
couple decades ago and it is frame right
of this hardware store now in Pasadena
and it is a it's a chiropractor's office
they moved the house they literally
moved the entire house it was this block
of houses that are actually right behind
this hardware store they were all being
tore down because they're all old
abandoned and there was one house
standing and it was the Michael Myers
house and some guy that had some money
from the area he wanted to buy it he had
no idea was used in Halloween really he
bought it because he thought he wanted
to preserve its historical significance
it was built like the late 1800s and
they said okay you can have this house
but you have to move it within a week or
we're gonna demolish it
so he physically he got hired somebody
to move the house to the end of the
block which is an area he did not have
permission to move it to he didn't own
that property yet he just moved it there
and let me plot the property later that
is fascinating he didn't even know it
was the Halloween no he found that out
later by the way Michael Myers a stroke
back behind Donald Pleasence in the back
they did is that he did he's always
watching the ironic part riches he threw
his back out when he moved the house
chiropractor Joe come on with me
no patented rich Evans laughing right
that was pretty pretty there do you not
make the chiropractor connection at
first I didn't know cuz I forgot that
aspect of okay well that's the problem
but yeah now that house sits awkwardly
at the end of the block it sits in a
really weird position
it's behind like a diner and then you
also visited the Freddy Krueger house
right yes the Michael Myers house is in
Pasadena the houses they're driving to
here to babysits are in LA and they are
that whole street that the climax of the
movie takes place on is a block off of
Sunset Boulevard it looks completely out
of place for the rest of that area and
the block or to south of that is the
Freddy Krueger house right in the same
little area both right off of Sunset
Boulevard yeah this is that right here
right right in the heart of Hollywood
and that's why they filmed there yeah
and there were nice green trees make it
look like the Midwest I'm so sorry that
the Magic has been around for this is
not actually filmed and ahead and filled
Illinois there is no handle okay if they
just said it took place in California
yeah yeah no I like that that's think of
Halloween trick-or-treating you think of
the Midwest you don't think of anybody
celebrating any holidays in California
yeah but no everything's gonna be just
so weirdly distracting with leaves and
fucking fucking outdoor schools I think
it's charming
believes especially I think that's neat
all right when Hollywood once just have
a good holiday themed movie they turn to
the Midwest mm-hmm because there is no
seasons in California exactly Southern
California there's no snow around
Christmas time and there's no fall in
the fall you know it's just a big haze
of smog and the pleasant smell of urine
in the air all the homeless bums and the
beauty of spray paint and magazine and
people dressed up as Wolverine and
spider-man begging for money so this is
the house before the painting yes they
filmed all this stuff and then for the
opening scene everyone on the crew
chipped in and cleaned up the house this
is I have a problem with this aspect of
the movie now we've had Donald Pleasence
dr. Loomis setting everything up he has
a great speech in this scene about
looking into Michael Myers his eyes and
just seen blackness after that he has
nothing to do for the rest of the movie
he's literally standing next to a bush
for the next 45 minutes yeah it's a
little awkward and so this is this is
not a set no this is what the house
looked like literal worn down
dilapidated house mm-hmm
it's so nice to watch a movie that has
real things in it and holds on shots the
sole movie is long gliding two shots
well this is really discover that
Michael Myers ate a dog right there
don't they find like like a pot of beans
or something on the stove in the kitchen
I don't think so I think they did damnit
I don't call this like he was eating
beans you're not thinking of a sequel
mmm I have no memory of this why would
you eat beans if you have dog I I don't
remember this dog I I think you you're
thinking of it another man no no he
looks down at he says he must whatever
to let die are you oh he must have got
hungry you're thinking of a different
Dean Cundy movie Jack and Jill it's
possible you know are you thinking The
Watchmen super shark eat raw beans no I
saw the Watchmen once and I don't
remember a thing about please don't
compare that hack flop to John
Carpenter's classic Halloween war Shack
me a break
hey Rorschach ended up playing Freddie
so there's a loose connection there's a
loose connection there yeah remember the
Fatima Elm Street remake what a hit I
guess that's the one thing I'll say for
the Rob Zombie remake like people still
talk about that movie and remember it
the Friday the 13th remake I didn't
think was that bad because it was
another shitty Friday the 13th movie and
the nightmare home street remake like
those are completely forgotten the Rob
Zombie movie most people talking about
because they hate it but it is still
brought up in discussions nobody cares
about the other remakes yeah yeah I like
Malcolm McDowell he's a good replacement
for Donald Pleasance Oh was he in that
even in the Halloween yeah do you played
the Donald Pleasance role jeez I don't
even remember
Donald Pleasence is a class act yes I
originally tried to get Peter Cushing or
Christopher Lee for this role Mabel
turned it down Peter Cushing yeah Wow
well he was it was you know as the
connection to the Hammer horror films
yeah yeah he was kind of going for that
but neither who wanted to do it I guess
Christopher Lee said he regrets it now
but thank God they ended up with Donald
Pleasance because he was very loyal to
the series and he made the sequels more
entertaining than they should be but
just being batshit crazy yeah and then
they preserved his his legacy in his
memory in Halloween 6 yes when they
released an unfinished film
in memory of yeah this is his great
speech about there's nothing left of a
human being inside of Michael Myers now
at some point he says that Michael Myers
was cooking beans I swear to god this
happened he's not a human being anymore
if you look into his eyes you see
blackness you smell beans he must have
been eating beans they show food and
they're like he's survived on this I
don't think you have to be thinking of
one of the sequels
yeah you're probably thinking of the one
with Busta Rhymes no I think it would
might have been for quickly find out
what grocery stores have sold beans in
the last 24 hours
catch him they catch him a security
camera walking around with his mask on
yeah this is like before everywhere had
security cameras so he broke into the
hardware store and that's where he got
his famous mask well let's talk about
the masks because they're ugly there's
probably two people who don't know about
that yeah the mask is important because
it is a William Shatner Star Trek mask
that they painted white yeah was the
hair part of the mask or the hair was
part of the mask they cut the eye holes
bigger they painted it white and they
may have done some other minor cosmetic
things to it but you two might know
better than I would is William Shatner
ever commented on that
I'm sure William Shatner wants to
remember it as a
serial killer well I know I'm thinking
like no but thinking of his personality
like if he ever wanted to get like money
out of them or some sort of something
from that association I want to say he
has yeah has talked about that didn't he
talk we saw him it live yeah I don't
know I'm talking about that
I thought he mentioned that interesting
he was too busy talking about how he
invented NASA no I he personally
inspired man to go to the moon
I hear he's appearing in Star Trek 3 oh
no really
yes there's anybody care about that
movie no I it's it's now officially
pathetic they're dredging up William
Shanahan Leonard Nimoy's coming back to
wait this is creepy oh yeah this is a
creepy shot by the way that's producer
Debra hill yes standing there yeah I
heard that was that was like the last
shot they ever filmed for the movie and
she's like five foot tall yeah but she's
so far away they put the mask on her and
they're like it's fine yeah I think
there's five or so different people to
play Michael Myers you know this movie
the main one yeah is Nick Castle who
went on to direct such hits as the
Dennis the Menace movie starring Walter
Matthau and major Payne and starring
Damon Wayans so the guy who was Michael
Myers went on to direct films yes well
he was a he's only in this movie because
he's he was like USC pals with John
Carpenter so he was a filmmaker in his
own right he did also do The Last
Starfighter so he did one quality movie
and he co-wrote escape from New York
well this is made 178 or 77 yeah right
in that era I think 77 came out in 78
it's interesting to me that a William
Shatner Halloween mask would have been
around that because that was that was
before Star Trek that revived with the
motion picture that's true well they
they bought the cheapest mask they could
with $2 yeah that was bought yeah about
that and they bought like a clown mask
and then they tried to decide which one
they wanted to use yeah they messed the
hair up adjusted the eye holes overall
yeah they cut him a little bigger oh
here he kills another dog Michael Myers
hates dogs Larry's got a kill it took
keep it quiet yeah is this the oh he
kills her but we don't see it on screen
right no we see if they find her body
later no no we see it dead dog dead dog
number two now he's gonna go cook some
more beans how did they get this shot
okay
tranq the dog you think so did you know
anything about that
I don't it really looks like the an
actual German Shepherd is they might
have just picked up the dog and shot it
in slow motion cuz I'm assuming if you
pick up a dog his legs will kind of
start Maryland sabe and here we have the
thing on TV which of course John
Carpenter went on to remake have you
seen that oh yeah okay the thing is
pretty great yeah that's interesting I
guess yeah this would have been before
that I in my in my earlier viewings of
this which the first time I saw this is
I think after the thing came out I
probably didn't make that connection at
this is exposure for the thing yeah I
probably saw this originally just saw
that as a reference to around the movie
he did which I'm sure he remade the
thing because he was a fan of the helmet
he likes the original film so although
the original film is laughable I've
never seen the original John Connor is
the thing is one of the the small
handful of movies people always bring up
when they try to bring up good remakes
yes they bring up that and the fly well
the original was like an embarrassingly
bad like 50s movie Howard Hawk
so he's a vegetable monster original
thing it's it's like a big metaphor for
communist sure but I mean the thing is
like a vegetable man I remember I can't
remember I just remember it may not have
plant material yeah that's real heavy
handed like Body Snatchers yeah those
Red Scare kind of movies I mention I've
seen the original and I haven't seen the
remake you never seen John Carpenter's
no I haven't holy shit dude that's one
of the best movies ever oh sure it's
another example of Dean Kennedy's
brilliance lighting you kept the monster
in the dark it's great practical effects
in that movie but so much a visit is in
shadow which makes it way more bleep how
did you see the remake remake of the
thing I did it's technically a prequel
even though it's the exact same movie
but it's supposed to be setting up what
happens at the beginning of John
Carpenter's The Thing but yeah I guess
they shot that movie with at all
practical effects and then someone
higher up said these look corny replace
them with CG so they went through the
movie and replaced all these amazing
practical effects with CG which is just
embarrassing I don't know the details
but I've heard the people that did the
original practical effects for that
they're making their own movie oh really
yes okay I forget what it's called
unfortunate thing they can make another
thing I don't know if I should look up
the titles or all the commentary Frank
is over it's cold things it's a remake
of things from Canada Oh God
now can I ask a question here Jay yes um
why what is the logic of Michael Myers
killing lorry strobes friends there is
no logic he's evil he's just killing
people but that are in in his hood but
why are they all why how does shell
happen to know them all is is he just
killing random people like well he's
been stalking them he saw them earlier
he's been stalking firm school yeah so
he's stalked her he saw them all walking
down the sidewalk so he's just sort of
been following them all around oh that's
a great reflection shot yeah now remind
me what's his motivation for stocking
Lori in the first place when this movie
was made he had none in part two they
introduced the idea that Laurie Strode
is Michael Myers his sister okay okay
yeah that was not meant to be the case
in this first movie John Carpenter
through that in the sequel because he's
like there's no more story what else do
I do I'll throw this in there you really
didn't want to do part two he only wrote
it he didn't direct yeah but I think the
only reason he did it so he could make
another movie I think it was like a to
picture deal where if he did that he
could do the fog I think which the fog
is great too interesting yeah and then
the third movie we want to talk about
the third movie that's where he said we
got to get rid of this Michael Myers
character let's turn the Halloween
series into an anthology series which i
think is a great idea every move every
year you have a new movie completely
unrelated I'm just about the season
Holly yeah yeah this is the season of
Halloween but I think people cannot get
away from the Michael Myers character
which is unfortunate because he gets
boring after that he's just a pure evil
killer and that's it weren't you telling
me that you thought hate for Halloween 3
was unwarranted too but it's a it's a
good movie or a sense somebody Holloway
3 is insane and wonderful it is such a
weird movie you haven't seen it rich um
well yeah but it's been so long okay
I don't remember I just remember the
masks would turn kids heads into bugs
yes the plot of the movie is
this crazy Irish man that runs a factory
that produces Halloween masks steals a
chunk of Stonehedge and chips off pieces
of it and puts it in a little disc on
the inside of the mask see make yeah and
when a subliminal signal comes out over
the TV while you're wearing the mask it
sets off something in the Stonehenge
chip that turns your head into bugs and
he wants to do that because he hates
children it is so amazing oh and he has
a minion of robots all of it all the
people that work at his Factory are
robots and there's like a couple other
investigating out there like news
reporters or something no it's Tom
Atkins and some woman that he just meets
that's trying to investigate why her
father died and so she has the
connection to it because her father died
because of something that crazy Irish
man did and Tommy I can gets involved
just because he wants to bang her oh
that's the movie the John Carpenter make
three he can't help to come up with a
premise he produced it and he did the
score okay and Alan how earth did the
score and it really I didn't see it
until a couple years ago and it was like
discovering a new John Carpenter movie
because the same score same sort of tone
Dean condi did the cinematography for
that too so it's it's definitely worth
checking out if people haven't seen it
because Michael Myers isn't in it just
watch it as a standalone horror movie
and it's wonderful
two more days to Halloween and you'll
have that song stuck in your head over
shamrock John Carpenter's also
apparently a talented musician yeah yeah
I wouldn't say talented he makes I
actually found this out with some of the
behind the scenes stuff on they live he
may be not the case with this movie but
it was some of his movies he did the
score like improvisational we just
played the movie and played music along
with it which is why some of its very
repetitive mm-hm
but yeah it wasn't like a planned out
thing like he didn't shoot sequences
with Ian
tension of having the score go a certain
way and I thought that was interesting
it's like like the song not to score but
like the song for Big Trouble in Little
China oh that's it assume that's him
singing oh I didn't know this mhm it's
him I think Tommy Lee Wallace who
directed part three and is Nancy Loomis
hears husband or was at the time and Nic
Castle who plays Michael Myers in this
the three of them in a band together
they were like a band when they went to
USC together and so they they
occasionally would do other things well
I take it back gun Cairo's accountant I
think basically it was called the coop
de villes that was the name of the band
and I think they're actually referenced
on the radio in this movie at one point
like II hear a radio person say our last
song was the coop de villes all this
trivia where are their parents on
Halloween night I guess they're out
party and these are all babysitters that
was the original title the movie was the
babysitter killer or something maybe
their massacre I want to be babysitters
baby sitter murders sounds right yeah I
give you not even considered that there
would be at a Halloween party Mike that
I think that's the assumption is that
there are three murders
yeah well the young kids want to go on
and trick-or-treat they're gonna go
check selfish of parents to go to a
Halloween party
yeah babysitter murders and then they
change the title to Halloween which it's
very fortunate that a movie about
Halloween that takes place on Halloween
that's called Halloween turned out to be
a good movie because otherwise the
shitty movie would be associated with
the season forever you know who saved
this movie from obscurity who's that
Roger Ebert Roger Ebert yeah just by
what really good review when I came out
it was like universally panned by
everyone and and movies releases are a
little slower back then this is one of
the things they cover in that
documentary
and everyone's like this is trash it's
trash it's it's you know stupid and then
John Carver's like whatever move on to
my next project yeah and then when
Hebert saw it he's like you know this is
really good there's actually some
crafters this is really a really well
made movie and he gave it a good review
and then it's sort of like revived it
and I don't know that's a life yeah I
know it was like a slow build before it
right all the money's right I didn't
know that yeah this is creepy - she gets
in the car and she sees breath on the
windshield did you just say all the
money she made all the money's this
movie was the most financially
successful independent film for a few
decades I think Blair Witch Project
finally beat it out technically the most
Mad Max technically the most successful
independent film is the Empire Strikes
Back Wow on a technical level
no I that is an independent film it's
not studio producer okay
studio released but well this was this
was for me a costs - profit ratio of how
much this movie cost to make which was
around $300,000 - how much it made oh
look there's a Leslie Nielsen
I thought I thought Mad Max had that
crown up until Blair Witch came out no
okay well there's a Howard the Duck
comic rich yeah
this is weird that the shot of them
watching TV is handheld it's not like
the the Panda glide shot it's like
actual handheld it sort of sticks out
with everything else in the movie vana
glide guy was was not there on that day
they ran out of money
Oh Paul Rudd you so crazy
he's trying to be a ninja
he's trying to scare his little sister
that's not his sister it's not no oh the
two kids come together yeah they're
babysitting in separate houses
it's Tommy wearing a Luke Skywalker
outfit I would highly doubt it I think
he's wearing ninja outfit oh that's
right he was trying to be a ninja
yeah let's he's trying to be stealth
here okay oh my gosh time frame that was
right for that to be a Luke Skywalker
outfit that's true
Oh asked it's actually an astronaut
uniform
so they're saying Michael Myers carry
the dead that's who was that that's
Annie yeah
okay so he sees that so I guess he do
get a little glimpse of him starting to
set up the bodies that uh that Laurie
Strode finds at the end of the movie
yeah he's actually actively working on
it he's going to the house he's putting
it in the closet or wherever she falls
out him he should have really carried
the body around the back side of the
house yeah it'd be a little more
inconspicuous I would think but Michael
Myers is is not one for subtlety just
have a walks around in broad daylight
with a monster mask on yeah so it's it's
it's very advantageous that he just so
happens to come home right around
Halloween
yeah otherwise he would look very
suspicious he planned that out J I don't
know if he planned anything out he's
pure evil he doesn't plan these things
he just is driven by pure will oh
there's uh Donald Pleasance just
standing by a plant some more he's gonna
fuck with some kids this is this is what
he does for the middle of the movie
mm-hmm he looks like a pervert but you
know he's just trying to protect them he
does he thinks Michael Myers could be
hanging out in this house even though
he's been hanging out there for hours
and he knows that Michael Myers is not
there well he's just gonna stand in one
spot in hopes that Michael Myers shows
up it's a perfectly valid strategy what
the fuck else is he gonna do wander
around the streets I he finds him I
think you could have rewritten the story
where he wasn't there Lee didn't get the
Haddonfield yet something where you
don't just have to have him stand there
for the entire middle chunk of the movie
he needs a Michael Myers detector oh
sure some sort of device like a they
really should have written that him
like a scientific device like a tell a
telepathic device that taps into his
brainwaves yeah and and Donald Pleasance
would wear like the thing that Louis
Tully wore on top of his head I think
that just would have made the movie
perfect that would've been great if he's
wearing that in like parts four and five
where he's really overacting and he
seems like more of a crazy person than
Michael Myers he's wearing this colander
on his head yeah I couldn't tap into his
brainwaves holding an insane ometer in
his hand beeps what he points at the
general direction of Michael Myers yeah
h2o it's not a great movie like the
slasher elements are kind of bland but
the movie works as like a like Laurie
Strode
confronting literally I figured today
she container demons and facing off
against Michael Myers she chopped his
head off at the end it's great and then
the next movie she's in an insane asylum
and Michael Mayer shows up and she falls
off the roof of the building and that's
the end of her story
I remember that no seagulls are so bad
at least there's funny bad stuff in most
of the the Friday the 13th and Nightmare
on Elm Street sequels
well nightmare upstream movies are
straight-up comedies after yeah they get
more so but they're imaginative they're
more creative I always liked him as a
kid more than these other series there's
the guy with the glasses that go on top
of the ghost that's a creepy image yes
that's Bob Bob his name Bob
close the door door open well view fine
so when was this Linda Bob and Linda
yeah
when Linda is a Bob are heading up
upstairs to the bedroom Linda trips on
the dolly track oh I think I recall this
yeah I think it's when they leave this
room it might not be the scene I don't
remember but
oh wacky dolly track
so where's the Halloween franchise today
J Michael Meyer earned Michael Myers Rob
Zombie Rob Zombie had a big hit with the
first one I made a second wait a second
one and everyone hated it even though I
think it's kind of interesting not a
good movie but it's interesting I did
not see the second I don't think anybody
saw this like it what did he do with the
second one the second one is so fucked
up it's about Laurie Strode she has
survived this movie the first movie yeah
but it's like about like dealing with
the fact that your brother is a serial
killer and she's like completely fucked
up in the head she turns into like this
weird punk rock chick and just all the
people that survived the first movie
like how they're dealing with it like
it's very real emotional in a weird way
but then Michael Myers starts seeing his
dead mom and a white horse he has these
weird visions it's very surreal and
stupid and what else happens in it and
then he just kills people I think he
kills a dog in that one too am ia crazy
man for thinking us a interesting sequel
to a horror movie would just be people
dealing with the fallout
yeah and that's what's interesting in
the second one but it gets bogged down
with a bunch of like bad attempts it's
surrealism and annoying characters but
the idea is there so yeah I don't know
but then that one flops so I don't know
I think the series is just sort of in
limbo now there was talk I'm doing a
third one but I think that's dead well
it'll just be another reboot a reboot
yeah
or there can't be no ideas anymore no
that's not entirely true there are some
new ideas out there and the theaters
like saw seven
they don't make saw movies anymore which
ovens grandpa
they've made a Saw movie since 2008 yeah
the saw series is now old yeah
that's really old that's crazy so that's
old already they're gonna reboot that
when are they gonna reboot saw it
no haunting hauntings are all the rage
now Jay that's the big thing yeah
torture torture porn horror stuff is no
longer a thing yeah which is cool cuz I
like haunting movies it was slasher
revival 97 on that's all the post screen
movies and it was torture and now it's
it's ghosts and or found-footage yeah
those that sure you got your watershed
movies scream and saw yes and then Blair
Witch slash paranormal activity yeah
well that's what's crazy is Blair Witch
was a huge hit and I thought there was
gonna be a ton of found-footage movies
right after that and there weren't until
Paranormal Activity and that was huge
and now there's a bunch as a result of
that movie being successful was where as
where does human centipede fit in with
that would you consider that torture
porn or is that more of a mutilation and
cut effect that's falls on that same I
guess it would fall under torture porn
there's more of an odd curiosity for
people I think yeah it doesn't
necessarily mean that every movie
conforms to whatever the current genre
carries it but especially when it comes
to independent horror films is I should
have been a lot of really interesting
ones in the last few years but as far as
the big mainstream horror ones yeah
ghost movies haunting movies that's
that's a found footage the slasher
serial killer is now no longer popular
no yeah I was kind of crazy scream
revive that and all the movies that came
out in the wake of that were just
generic slasher movies even though the
screen was sort of dissecting that and
your idea and all the cliches of it
everything that followed it was just a
generic slasher movie but nobody
understood that serious what started the
craze the smoke increase look you can
see the smoke in this shot - J I think
that's because they're smoking on camera
oh oh now let's started the cliche of
the couple having sex and then getting
killed these youngins the mayor of those
cigarettes look really big I think
they're just really tiny oh my god that
cat picture that was amazing
that's what passed for art back then
this is something I'll give the remake
in in this version Michael Myers comes
to the door where PJ Souls is Lane and
he's wearing the ghost costume the ghost
costume is not set up in this like he
don't see him putting it on like oh I'm
gonna scare my girlfriend Michael Myers
just shows up in the ghost costume and
the remake they they show that the Bob
character puts on the costume first yeah
so it's a little weird in this version
yeah well it's nice that the remake got
something most of the shots in the
remake weren't focused - so it's true
here we have the famous head tilt kill
yeah
stabs him even though this I don't think
is physically possible to pin him to a
wall with a tiny knife that would even
go all the way through him but it works
visually
there yeah that's the most exciting kill
in this movie and it's like nothing
yeah the knife would just pop right out
of the wall
well it's not even a wall it's their
cabinet it's like a cabinet door yeah
the whole thing we just collapse look at
that lighting now yeah this looks great
the blue lighting and Michael Myers set
a light and shot on the top of the frame
I don't think maybe no that couldn't be
anything is possible
yeah so now he just shows up with this
ghost costume yeah well why would
Michael Myers want to scare some I mean
because he's evil the visual is creepy
you know well he gets close to her
without her running away all right all
right it's a little clunky it is comical
in the remake though because the guy
playing Michael Myers is like 9 feet
tall so he's standing there wearing this
costume and it's just like Bob's that
you mean he's comically tall it's
clearly not your boyfriend I like how he
puts the glasses on top of the ghost
costume
yeah yeah to simulate that it's Bob it's
it's it's really scary actually you
should wear that costume for the rest of
the movie look at what's cost you
that'll be great
even the nudity and this is really tame
like you could cut out a few little
things in this thing in this movie and
it would be like a PG mm-hmm yeah
there's no blood or gore so many phone
calls in this movie - everybody's
constantly on the phone very observant
of you J I guess that's I guess that's
the way people communicated back yeah
those are you saying this movie is
basically death list so he had his mask
on and a blanket over his mask and
someone's prescription glasses on over
that yes yes and he still got around all
right you know you don't know how many
things he stumbled on his way up to the
bedroom that's a maze that gets to the
doors okay now I'm gonna be really cool
when I open this door that was that was
the third door he tried the first one
you opened the doors slowly in it it was
the bathroom is that a person at the end
okay oh he stumbled forward he tried to
stab the toilet we need to make this a
new short oh yeah I always wonder
because then at the end of this movie is
the big reveal when Laurie Strode goes
across the street and she sees her
friend like ones laying in the bed ones
hiding in the closet that falls out at
her all her dead friends like Michael
Myers had to set all that stuff up like
I want to see those scenes of him
awkwardly shoving someone into a into a
closet
in Aisle back at dr. Loomis and the plan
or make a movie where a killer goes to
the trouble of setting all that up but
that is victim rensen like the other
house
damn still by that Bush is he waiting
for it Michael - Oh 18 hoping that
Michael Myers shows up and he just now
noticed the car that's been parked
across the street this entire time so
now he's just gonna wander around and
hope that he finds Michael Myers this is
the clunkiest part of the movie why
aren't there cops with him there there
was a there's one girl there's yes
small-town rich alright one sheriff
there's any brackets dad as well as
driving around and that's all that
happens yeah he just noticed that car
damn it he's surrounded here somewhere
yeah they come back to him in little
wallet he's literally just walking down
the middle of the street look at her out
you know he's doing something Jane now
he is before he was just fucking with
little kids
speaking of looking around I think this
is the the long looking around segment
oh look at this the doorknob is on one
side and then when it cuts the exterior
that's on the other side oh my god
I was that boom mic shadow I saw no no
that's a tree yeah stop looking for
flaws in john carpenter's classic film
halloween by the way rich this is
california not the midwest i knew that
when i was eight i'm not a horror movie
guy i've seen this movie approximately
once oh my god really
yeah this is one of those movies that
sorry Conakry don't have to see it to
know basically what happens in it mm-hmm
but this whole segment is great this is
what makes the movie here it's so drawn
out this is just her walking around she
knows something's up she doesn't know
what's up but we do and that's where the
tension comes from we know Michael Myers
is killing people mm-hmm
that's a giant butcher knife that's
where we fucked up when we made the
recovered we joked that the movie should
be called looking around because we had
so many scenes of just their main
character walking around and it works
here because the audience knows what's
happening in the character doesn't
that's what builds tension in our movie
the audience to know what was happening
and the character didn't know what was
happening
these are did we and neither did we so
it kind of falls flat are you saying you
have to convey information to your
audience yes that's very important oh no
who said that I don't know this is tiny
voice coming from somewhere rich we have
to start from back to the drawing board
with space come yeah I'm ready let's go
let's go for it and action
space cop more like space flop that was
clever did you just come up with that
just came up with that space craps gonna
be remade before it comes own the
reboots already in the works it's gonna
be so terrible you have no idea how
terrible space craps gonna be all right
everyone's anticipating this movie John
Carpenter's gonna remake space comp
oh man and I'm starring in space cop and
I'm just ashamed I'm so ashamed there's
one of the more embarrassing things
you've done it is and I've done a lot of
embarrassing things wait Laurie Strode
slowly walking through a door
yes she's made her way into the house
remember hanging potted plants do they
still have those yes they do but they're
not in that uh that like cloth ropey
material right now they're just like
plastic oh well that's that's just a
shame now it's some sort of weird Mack
lady that guy was stabbed against the
wall there Oh Michael Myers Michael
Myers has now placed everybody hidden
throughout the house in hopes that
Laurie Strode would come over there and
discover them oh we missed the trip and
I'm the dolly shot Oh what happened a
little while ago look at this lighting
this is great it is so moody the soul
yeah this this little atmosphere in this
film
now does she trip over the dolly and say
oh I tripped over the dolly and they
just keep it in is that movie yeah these
are not outtakes these are actual scenes
I don't think she verbally says I
tripped over the dolly but I'm just big
visualizing the score I think everybody
knows of course the famous
halloween-themed but the the slower more
atmospheric piece of music the place
throughout the movie I like that a lot
too it's not just like one note on the
the piano no that's when it gets more
tense than okay I've done I care what
the score sounds like here yeah no it's
it's haunting and great I remember going
to haunted houses I don't know what's
like those three notes do be some jaws
do not jaws what was it not that the
main jaws but that was Star Wars that
you just did do do do do do you can't
you can't you can't sing that that's
copy written by who the fuck do you mean
by who
John Disney's the public domain know
something so public domain is always a
hundred and eighty-nine years for
something to become public domain Thank
You Disney thank you thank you Steamboat
Willie a hundred eighty nine years it's
in 79 years after the person's dead yeah
or after their last living relative is
dead so basically all my 189 years see
we didn't get to see Michael Myers
awkwardly lugged that tombstone into the
house and set it up on the bed I want to
see all those scenes just dragging it
yeah just dragging it down the sidewalk
this is the the obviously the headstone
of his sister yet he murdered yes but
then and then they show the grave dude
but the grave is like a child-size grave
you don't release you to see though you
see him standing next to it and it's
like you don't see the grave you see
what the heads tombstone oh that's the
tombstone went there yes oh okay yeah
though they weren't they didn't try to
fit a person into that I thought there
they were oh my god
that's sort of a comical face that it is
oh this is a great shot coming up where
Michael Myers slowly they have like a
tiny dimmer light on him and he slowly
comes in from the darkness
yeah these wonderful blue shafts of
light and then oh no here he comes there
he is we have the main Halloween theme
everyone go into haunted houses is a
little kid and every haunted house when
you're waiting in line they had that
same like Halloween compilation mixtape
of spooky music and so I had always hear
that song long before I was way too
little to see the movie so I didn't know
what it was from and then when I finally
saw this movie I was like that's the
haunted house music can I share our
halloween memory as a child absolutely
in my neighborhood there was a house and
the guy would he had a perfect Michael
Myers costume on and he would he would
sit on the porch and then you know the
imperiaz stuff and then he would move
and then he would walk around the side
of his house and um it was always like
you got to go to the Michael Myers house
you gotta go the Michael Myers house and
then me and my sister and I don't know
who else went there we're like where is
Michael Myers and with s in this like
Old Lace she's oh hold on and then we
looked at night we saw him sitting at
the kitchen table he's eating damn it
maybe he'll be around and then and then
this the music comes on the old lady
walks around the corner of the house and
he's standing there and now let me ask
you this when he was sitting at the
table was he eating beans he might have
been I didn't see what he was eating but
I think that's where the saw like it was
really scary as a little kid it wasn't
it wasn't Michael Myers but but and and
where my grandma was country club hills
I've heard it was the mayor of Country
Club Hills house yeah it was a kind of
thing where you'd walked across the
porch to get to the door there was a guy
you know I suppose a dummy sitting on a
bench in the porch and then he would
stand up but it was set up so when you
ran off of the porch there was somebody
else at the end of the driveway with a
chainsaw ah nice
so he'd rev up the chainsaw and chase
you down the driveway that was one of
the spookiest moments that just happened
when she goes to the neighbor's house
and begging screaming for help and you
see him through the window Jen on the
light and look out and then they just
shut off their porch lights not my
problem you know that was the smartest
thing they could have done they would
have been murdered this is creepy that
yeah the to say that it's locked down
shot
yeah just far away and he's just getting
closer and closer and coming right
towards my camera it's not trying to get
crazy yeah open the door Tommy
or you know you keep running to other
houses hurry up you little brat
Paul Rudd would never make me wait
outside that long it would be funny of
Tommy walk to the door like no one could
see what you're doing I'm doing the
exaggerated oh the Paul ride on what he
tells him to pick up his dishes and yeah
that American summer yeah exaggerated uh
I'm irritated walk and slow-motion
appalled what does that would be great
wonderful Paul Rudd's ever talked about
his experience working on Halloween
probably maybe nobody's ever asked him
he's probably on the set for like two
days
no he's the mean one of the main
characters in Halloween sex he's not a
saint no he's not that's not X not
really Paul Rudd we're calling him Paul
Rudd cuz it's scary because he girls not
to be Paul Rudd that kid probably grew
oh it's the same character to be I did I
get a character grown up towards the end
of the series they got desperate and
connections yeah okay yeah okay as Jamie
Lee Curtis you know she had to make her
Activia commercials and do other things
yeah I don't want to be part of this
anymore this is this is silly
mm-hmm little kid grew up the step
sister oh the auntie imply in Halloween
six Jamie Lloyd the little girl from
part four and five she's been abducted
by the cult and she and she has a baby
and they insinuate in the movie that the
baby is Michael Myers is baby even
though Jamie Lloyd is his niece yeah
when the fuck would Michael Myers have
sex with anybody it's very stupid oh and
this is speaking of stupid she just
threw the knife away the only reason she
did that is because they needed to have
more happen in the movie yeah here he is
Donald Donald Pleasence is just walking
around maybe I'll find something
appears to be an alien green nest in
your cop cars they've got a giant green
light on inside your car I have to light
the inside of the car so we can see the
cop ya know I like that it's green it
gives it a weird atmosphere there's an
alien invasion going on at the same time
that Michael Myers is going on a killing
spree okay that cop is fighting off
unrelated aliens that's possible Rick
yeah so yeah it actually threw away the
knife she goes upstairs no knife
she thinks it's over because she stabbed
him with a knitting needle haven't have
they ever done a movie where two amazing
unbelievable things are going on at the
same time they're completely unrelated I
don't think so I think I think we would
just get horribly confused so what
happened to this little girl did she
grow up the Chicago Halloween I don't
think she's in any of the sequel she
grew up became a prostitute so nobody
talks about her yeah they never tried to
milk that
let's bring the little girl back I guess
they figure Paul Rudd
you got one character back that's enough
they might address it in that oh but
that's not his sister that's the other
neighbors kids yeah yeah well tying
tying that flimsy closet door together
that's sure to stop by caboose she's
doing what she can she's doing what she
cable situation jumps jump out the
fucking window she dropped the knife
that Michael Myers now has so she has no
knife
it leads to a great visual of him
busting through the closet door yes
which was paid homage to an hard ticket
to Hawaii of all movies I don't know if
it was intentional but there's a scene
just like this and her ticket to Hawaii
doesn't know the light bulb comes on -
for a second let me bust through the the
closet door does it I think so
not a zone like a mistake or anything
it's like part of the scene like him
hims hand reaching through okay and
lights his face up
I believe I haven't seen this movie in a
long time yeah then you got the shadows
swooping back and forth across her face
it's great oh yeah she sticks a hanger
in his eye yeah this is weird
I think it's right after this she sticks
the hanger in his eye and he takes the
mask off for a second you see his face
looks like a guy but I remember when I
was first watching these movies for the
first time I watched part four and then
I was looking at the box for part five
and it was like finally for the first
time Michael Myers unmasked because I
think he takes his mask off for a second
in that yeah he's still just the guy
like why make that a big deal well that
he was like completely in five he was
completely silhouetted yeah this is like
I or something right and five it's I
remember it being like almost complete
silhouette here it's like here's this
guy you see his face yeah they hired
this actor to play him and he had on the
guy is not Nick Castle right it's just
actor man and he has this crazy stare
and then they put yeah what's the mask
back on and yeah he just hits a shaft of
light you see his face I think is yes I
slightly fucked up and then that's it
he's just a guy yeah and that's sort of
the point John Carpenter talked about
you know the decision of showing him or
not showing him well look she threw away
the knife again say even Jamie Lee
Curtis hates that I've heard her talk
about that but she throws away the knife
twice
little does she know that Michael Myers
will not die I get him out of the GD
house already staircase is over there
hey these kids are the only reason the
Donald Pleasance shows up at the end
because they come running out of the
house screaming mmm and he just happens
to be walking by at that exact moment it
all worked out oh this is a spooky shot
focuses completely on her there's not
like a like a big musical sting he just
sits up it's so great this slowly turns
to said yeah robotic what I just happen
to be walking by but but scariest things
jumping up at you yeah yeah and making
loud noises that's scary right yeah
focus completely stays on her it's so so
great so well executed it gives you
shivers down your spine
can you imagine if they tried to make a
movie with this sort of pacing and tone
now like everybody would just hate it I
guess I should say audiences would hate
it
critics maybe not so much although
critics hated this when it came out
right oh yeah here's a daisy yeah yeah
there is he's just a guy guy who got
shot six times yeah that's how the
second one starts he runs outside he
meets back up with the cop and he's like
I shot him I shot him six times that's
what he starts the start of Donald
Pleasence is overacting that got
increasingly more crazy as the series
went along oh here if you look very
closely you can see creases on her face
do you see that look under her eye yeah
that's because right before they shot
the scene she was sleeping on a corduroy
couch so she still has the imprints on
her face oh yeah yeah that is a fun
movie fact you see the creases on Donald
Pleasence face old age yeah and I love
the subtle little look on his face like
he's not surprised that Michael Myers is
gone music kicks in and then we just get
a little montage of all these shots of
places he's been he could be anywhere
it's so great
this is on the score kicks in again yeah
there's a little bit of a continuity
error here they show the living room and
there's the knife on the ground
clearly that was taken from the previous
shot where she throws it on the ground
and leaves frame so this is a sort of
montage created in editing it wasn't
planned I'm assuming no no but it works
it's a great way to end the movie yeah I
think that they mentioned that these are
all just extra bits of footage
yeah just establishing shots and things
like that and there's the chiropractors
off and close it on the house right yeah
directed by John Carpenter
helloween I hope we get to see that
house again and I hope Busta Rhymes has
involved somehow
no that's what everybody said when this
movie came out right I can't wait to see
the next one
I hope Busta Rhymes is in it I hope 40
years from now Michael Myers will be in
space killing people on the
International Space Station the shape he
wasn't even called Michael Myers because
he was no longer a person that's so
weird yeah well thanks for for watching
Halloween with us I hope everybody has a
wonderful Halloween season it's all the
gimmicks Halloween Daniel cast and crew
their production crew there's like 12
people that's it that's the way movies
used to be made especially independent
films like this that's amazing yeah
that's it
yeah only 11 people made this movie and
then six people on post and you know
John Carpenter like he made this movie
just where it was kind of work for hire
like the idea was already in place to
make a movie about a guy killing
babysitters what what movie was that
we're like the special effects team came
up and it was like four rows of names
across the screen that's everyone's
every movie now and it went up for like
ten minutes
so and I just started laughing yeah
that's every Marvel film at this point
yeah
but this is this is what you can do with
a little bit of ingenuity and creative
filmmaking and a little bit of elbow
grease yeah I was boring of boring there
was enough killed
