Jan 22, 2014
Alien Vs Predator Half in the Bag Commentary Track
https://redlettermedia.bandcamp.com/track/alien-vs-predator-half-in-the-bag-commentary-track

hello and welcome to the half of the bad
commentary track for alien vs. predator
the hit film from 2004 I'm Mike I'm Jade
I'm rich and today we're going to watch
alien versus Predator the the classic
film and why alien versus Predator why
not because movie the movie that
underwhelmed audiences everywhere a
little fun fact here I found out the the
opening and closing credits for this
movie are 12 minutes in total which is
usually what you do when you have to pad
your movie out to get it to 90 minutes
oh but it's 90 minutes without the
credits I think it's a hundred minutes
James I think the film is a hundred
minutes well with credits with credits
yeah but why Pat it out more than you
have to
well they could have just added more
boring scenes I made the movie slightly
longer yeah a little bit more people
walking around boring hallways yeah so
why are we doing a commentary track on
this film I don't know I've never seen
it before
well I think it's safe to say we're all
fans of the Alien and Predator series
right yeah well both of you guys saw
this movie when it came out in the
theaters right yeah III saw this in the
theater you paid money to see this in
the theater yeah I took my little
brother to see it in the theater rich
Evans did you go by yourself in a
trenchcoat sunglasses I don't remember
who the fuck I saw this with it may have
been nobody it may have been well what
the fuck else am I gonna do tonight
just go see aliens vs. predator this is
the ultimate what else am I gonna do
movies there's absolutely nothing else
on my guess so is this is this does this
predate the Resident Evil series from
the acclaimed director Paul WS Anderson
no he actually turned down directing
Resident Evil whatever the second one is
I'll write this instead oh you know that
was a good choice I guess so yeah this
is better than the second Resident Evil
movie I'll give it that this better than
any of the Resident Evil movies not that
I think this is a work of art yeah yeah
yeah I have to say I
I have not this is a 2nd time viewing
this
watch this for the first time recently
it wasn't as bad as I remember now the
problem is it's a movie with no one to
root for and nothing to care about was
like this woman right here is our main
character I have four one I don't even
remember her name and we just watched
this last night I don't remember her
name and her only character is that
she's a black woman yeah this is a
little team that goes on this expedition
it's a multiracial multicultural group
and that's their only trait each of them
the Italian guy yeah your spud from
Trainspotting yeah I did they set up any
kind of backstory with her oh this I
mean her character is that she's a polar
explorer and I see like it like an
environmental scientist or something
that's right yes she's the hero she no
no she's the girl but she's also she's
an environmental scientist who is whose
expertise in polar cold climate she's
like the guide she's supposed to give
everybody else a lodge so they don't die
in the frozen wasteland
yeah but there-there is no attempt to
establish like any kind of character arc
life no there's no character family
wants her to come back you know her
husband is doing this or she she's got
to learn some although you could say
like Ripley in the first Alien movie
what do we really know about her when
that starts that's true that's true how
did she not notice that helicopter
landing or the fact that the guy was
talking to her like she could hear him
because he's right above her not just on
the phone a helicopters a loud device
huh you know yeah so this is our Italian
scientist who's digging in Mexico
looking for ruins of Mayan ruins or
something right and his characteristic
is that he's Italian yeah and his little
psychic there his characteristic is he's
the guy with the video camera yeah that
bottle cap has more characteristics than
anyone else in the movie I don't think
that bottle cap makes any sense these
are presumably ruins right yeah he was
digging digging around inside a ruin
that one assumes has been buried for a
thousand years and there's a Pepsi no no
it's it's the show that someone has
looted it already okay okay and also to
squeeze in a product placement as their
entire movie takes place inside a
pyramid underground yeah yeah they can't
put a Pepsi machine going in the
background and yeah I'm the ancient
pyramid but you know why not
why don't they do what they could have
yeah so this opening a lot of these
opening scenes kind of made me think of
a role in emmerich movie where you see
all the different people in different
parts of the world there's the shot of
all the satellites
yeah yeah it is a very roland emmerich
yeah but this movie is not as bad as a
Roland Emmerich movie believe it or not
it's it's not as dumb it's it's yeah I
suppose this this movie I mean you know
it's not a work of art but it's pretty
straightforward it's a it's alien versus
Predator porn basically it's a sci-fi
porn right yeah it doesn't go far enough
with that though like when you watch a
porn like you want to see some fucking
in the first ten minutes no no I
disagree no I mean not about the porn
part but about this movie like oh no I
actually like the fact that they take
their time to build things up but I'm
insane if you're using porn as an
analogy but I'm thinking like this was
2004 this was made yeah and like the the
way these types of movies are executed
now is so much different yet than just
10 years ago I mean this was me now I'm
thinking of like like the Evil Dead
remake like you can't slowly build
things up and have things escalate in
terror or an action or an horror or
whatever it is you got to have like that
opening scene of the Evil Dead remake
it's like possessed lady swearing head
explosion like immediately yeah this was
made today you'd have like a 10 minute
alien vs. predator brawl right all right
all right well I'm using porn as the as
the analogy of lack of plot okay not
necessarily build up because this movie
follows the basic rule of don't show
your monster until 30 minutes and the
end of the first act which is always
nice because you show the aliens or the
monster
right off the bat you know this the
build-up is gone but one that have
worked better though if we if we got to
know these characters better in that
time the human characters yeah well
that's that in theory that's what these
scenes are these are character building
scenes unfortunately there are no
characters well this this scene on the
helicopter that just happened where the
woman is talking to the guy with the
weird accent was at the Trainspotting
guy yeah
he's telling her that he has two kids
yeah he's the only person a human being
in this film that has any
characteristics yeah well he taught it
relate to yeah oh and here we have
Weyland explaining the mission to him
and it's just like Prometheus yeah you
know there are a lot of similarities um
you have your band of characters and
then Weyland shows up and explains
everything yeah except they're facing
the other way and Prometheus Oh Weyland
was a hologram okay they're subtle
differences and also Weyland was not
Lance Henriksen no well I think this is
weird that Lance Henriksen is I think
they showed that magazine cover in his
middle name is Bishop it's like okay oh
yeah but the another Whelan's an
ancestor of this shows up in alien 3
right and he looks exactly the same with
s Lance Henriksen an alien 3 yeah who's
not Weyland he he's Michael Weyland he's
an ancestor oh right and it's a pretty
big coincidence that generations apart
two people would look completely
identical oh if it's alien 3 it wouldn't
be an ancestor would be a descendant
there this is an ancestor this is the
original Weyland not yeah there are at
least three lens Hendrickson's in the
alien signer
at least he's cheap the only reason he's
in this is connection to alien series
right he's all I got
aside from the aliens themselves and he
could sort of say sentences with some
mild enthusiasm yeah interesting look
and he's got an interesting voice yeah
hmm oh no I like him as an actor I'm
saying this he he's just phoning it in
oh if you're flying crap about anything
but then again everyone involved in this
project is
well that's the interesting thing I was
looking up information on this movie and
because I was curious the first time we
watched it I was trying to remember
which came first this or Freddy vs.
Jason yeah and Freddy vs. Jason was 2003
so a year before this and that movie
just made a ton of money which I think
kind of surprised a lot of people but it
was a big hit and like weirdly surprised
a lot of people everyone wanted to see
Freddy vs. Jason well ten years earlier
ten years earlier sure but but yeah so
apparently at the same time that that
movie was being made Freddy vs. Jason
James Cameron was putting together a
script for a fifth Alien movie that
Sigourney Weaver was attached to be in
and Ridley Scott was interested in
directing and then no no and then Freddy
vs. Jason was a big hit Century Fox
decided that they were gonna abandon the
James Cameron Scott movie together alien
versus Predator this movie had a two
month shoot and four month
post-production well I was quickly
rushed into theaters yeah I went from
being ambivalent about this movie know I
hate it yeah I'm just guessing the
connection between Freddy vs. Jason
coming out and this coming out less than
a year later but there was before this
existed there was talk of a James
Cameron Ridley Scott yeah new alien
movie I didn't know that that like I was
going to say if this came out in 2004 at
Freddy vs. Jason was 2003 this was
probably in production and you know wow
you know what I'm sure that decision was
a creative decision and not a financial
one well there was an artistic decision
there was someone who just had this
story that they wanted to tell versus
Brad aliens vs. predators apparently
there was they were gonna possibly make
an alien vs. predator before they went
and did Alien Resurrection - there's a
wonderful interview Astarte we were
talking about that where she wasn't sure
if she wanted to come back to the alien
series but then she found out that they
wanted to make that and she said that
idea sounded awful
three weeks so that's the reason she
pushed for doing Alien Resurrection
instead yeah
which whatever you can say about that
movie it's a little more interesting
than this
yeah well a lien versus predators goes
bad this is a number of mini-series and
I read the first one and I know this
concept can be good I know it's a good
pairing but this is just slapped
together yeah well really all you need
like or what would have helped anyway is
a more interesting story more
interesting characters well it has the
and that's the hinge on the human
characters yeah there's nothing
interesting about aliens or predators
are interesting and concept but you know
I mean unless you really I mean this
movie attempts to make a predator a
character sorry yeah but you really
can't especially aliens like they're
just bugs smart bugs that multiply but
predators are a little more
sophisticated I guess yeah but it has to
hinge on the human characters and this
the human characters are barely holding
the movie up there just like cardboard
cutouts yeah to move the plot along to
get to the the pornography of aliens
fighting predators one of the two things
that survived in this script from the
original aliens vs. predator comic book
was they kind of made a character out of
one of the predators and it teams up
with a human being to fight the aliens
in the end and the predator gives her
the mark of the blood mark like in this
and the the the opening of the comic has
the Queen alien chained up laying the
eggs yes it's interesting when you look
at that like the comic book and there's
a completely different story but there's
those tiny little kernels that somehow
survived like rewrite after rewrite and
that's all of its left the original
source material I actually had the
screenplay of alien versus Predator yeah
I was at a Star Trek convention like in
high school like a really long time ago
and I found you see they used to sell
like screenplays like photocopied
what do you call it when you send a
script to somebody and they read through
it you know like a I don't know a draft
or whatever and that's something that
didn't go into production and then
someone had a copy of it and they sell
it to some comic book dealer somewhere
and it ends up at a convention and I
found one and I don't I don't really
remember it that well but I think it was
somewhat similar to this plot well it
was like just a bunch of human
characters and they discover the hidden
fortress and but I guess they original
comic takes place after alien it's like
James Cameron's aliens era it takes
place in the future and they decided not
to go with that because this would be
cheaper yes basically well this film it
in snow we won't know the sets and those
are good I like the I like the look of
the temple sets okay yeah except for the
hieroglyphics on the wall which are
comical yeah I don't see that a little
later
well here's our here's some
characterization there are that guy has
scars on his face well you know rich I'm
gonna say that the main character here
she's got a little more to her than what
you were saying not only is she black
but she's a woman so that's the
character J I said she was a black woman
whatever you never listened to me nobody
ever listened to me what is that is that
an obvious like committee thinking
casting decision where it's like the
alien lead has to be a female but if we
make her white people compare her to
Sigourney Weaver yeah so maybe yeah well
I was actually thinking about like just
coming up when they get to the little
whaling base whatever like it's time
outside and the Arctic and I was
thinking of the cast of the thing you
know there's no committee thinking when
it comes to that it's just a bunch of
like burly dudes the ally beards and
half the time you can't sell them apart
when they're outside in their parkas
yeah and that's like those are the type
of type of people that would be on some
sort of expedition like this yeah yeah I
don't mind the the variety of characters
because I mean I'm looking at this and
they're you know you they show the the
female with the spiky hair yeah and I
think of aliens and aliens had all those
yeah like Vasquez and all the different
like but James Cameron and whoever wrote
that script to aliens I don't know was
it James Gang I think he gives he gives
them the little touches and yeah and
it's done a little it's it's not a lot
better than this but you get to know all
those characters much better and then
really without without too much too much
information
yeah and this it's like like what why
does that work and this doesn't a lot of
it can come out of just performances
yeah they can bring subtleties to it but
these are all just bland actor people
yeah they're like robots would we
complain though if they if they threw in
too many stereotypes like we're putting
together a ragtag team and you know
there's the guy with the cowboy hat
who's got two revolvers that would be
bad too
they're just a different type of bad but
but would it work for a move like a
schlock movie like this I think it would
I let out of this yeah for the tone of a
movie like aliens is you know it's still
a sci-fi action movie but this is sci-fi
action but I think it's just there's a
blandness to all these characters yeah
and I would have preferred you know a
whole like the crazy this or that and I
think whoever wrote this they were this
is all just filler this is just what you
have to put in the prerequisites to make
it a movie every everyone other than the
black woman everyone's purpose is just
to die yeah in this movie so if they
were well colorful characters yeah I'm
fine with that
yeah they're the purpose is to read
aliens essentially yeah so that there
are aliens well that's another thing
about this whole movie that seems sort
of awkward to me is the idea that the
the the Predators have this whole temple
and all these devices and stuff to hunt
aliens when in the other predator movies
and they they just hunt like yeah like
they just go out to the first movie he
just goes out to the woods mm-hmm like
why is it some big operation in this
because they need a plot if they need a
plot that I thought what the the whole
predator angle of this doesn't make
sense to me and like is why I mean they
need okay they need people to breed
aliens but why go down and pretend to be
gods and build this complicated temple
you you do it like they did in the comic
book you just take the eggs and you
launch them down into a planet and you
let the the aliens just do their thing
you don't need the the ceremony yeah
that seems more like it would be
appropriate for these two series of
movies yeah but again you're talking
like budget budgetary you know like a
massive scale yeah a lot like that it's
much easier to do it small scale and
have a couple of people in a room and
legs yeah one location a couple of sets
such they move around get it in get it
out so here's here's a question of what
is the purpose of this whaling village
location yeah you can have the Queen
alien run through those giant bones at
the end yeah I mean it's so odd though I
mean this whole village is just a
coincidence yeah it happens to me over
this temple they don't they don't
explain that it's some kind of cover-up
on past expedition to this temple or
something that's that's what I was
expecting yeah yeah it's just an
abandoned whaling village and it just
happens to be over the abandoned temple
yeah yeah I think it I don't think they
explain it much further than that movie
speaking it's to have sex like this and
have people look around with flashlights
that kill as if they were just in a
empty field of ice
there's no visuals its visuals and then
it's to have a different location to
have a fight at the end yeah basically
the problem is it's like I would accept
this movie in the Amazon or something
like that's where - that's where the the
Predators tend to be is like warm
climates yeah well not just that but um
visuals sake - like because you have all
the the movie is just gray
yeah black and dark gray and white
there's not a lot of color to it no
that's bad for the movie it's bad for
trailers too you know you want to have
some visual variety in your trailer but
I don't know then they could film on
sets yeah and smash all these buildings
at the end no it's very obvious later on
in the movie which shots were done
specifically so they could put them in
the trailer yeah of course you got the
two monsters facing each other they do
that twice yeah I wonder if they use
both those shots in the trailer this is
a shot that used in the trailer does the
penguin and that's the tag at the end of
the trailer so the alien versus Predator
versus penguin I would watch that movie
yeah alien versus Predator versus Happy
Feet happy feet yeah they have a
dance-off it's not that Happy Feet movie
is it's a bunch of penguins dancing oh
you did not watch this and I don't know
why you did I didn't watch it oh here's
a weird little detail we noticed it
looks like they lightened up that shot
right around his face yeah yeah there's
like a glow around his face it's very
obvious if go back and look at that yeah
it's very weird yeah rewind your VHS
tape and look at that okay so here we
have this is Waylon and Friends well I
guess we'll talk about the the cannon
and how Weyland is not guy Pierce and
doesn't live 300 years in the future
yeah well I guess we'll talk about that
later maybe the scene where he throws
the spear or tries to tries to set a
predator on fire with a can of hairspray
the predator says I'm not gonna kill you
you're dying of lung cancer don't you
turn your back on me anyway okay so I
forget what happens here there's the the
predators shoot a hole in the ground to
travel through to get down to the temple
yeah like a laser they bore a hole with
a laser yes and then fly through it they
perish
threw it out of the Gibbon it went out a
little sled ride just like what happens
later in the movie take a little sled
down there why not I don't know but
later they show them like don't they
show the spaceships coming down later
yeah in a couple minutes it's something
like that they do have little drop pods
that come down so they're there maybe
the hole is made ahead of time and
they're planning to drop down they show
them making the whole from space they
shoot a lizard from space but they're
not in there yet they will land leave
they will land I think they and then you
plan it out rich that the hole burned a
hole through the laser burned a hole the
laser okay there's this wailing village
and the laser they shot from space
burned a hole through the buildings as
well as the ground
yeah no the humans seem to think there's
anything particularly worrisome about
this well did they even notice the hole
in the building I think they did I
thought they looked up at some point
okay cuz it's very obvious don't worried
about some other humans beating them to
the mining side what about this thing
that burned a hole through the building
that very clearly came from the sky well
that brings up an interesting point
something that I was wondering like
because I'm watching this and prometheus
is in the back of my mind and yeah in
prometheus
waylynn the old way land wants to travel
to the alien planet because he he wants
to meet aliens and and find the cure for
his illness or immortality essentially
he wants to find the cure for a bad
old-age makeup a bad old-age makeup um
and and this what was the purpose of
Lance Henriksen trying to find a temple
he just wants to do something
interesting before he dies I think he
just wants to find a temple it was yeah
I think there was like one line about it
during the Prometheus exposition scene
but well yeah like they show he doesn't
know he's gonna find aliens okay I
figured he knew some but they show or
here's her question the very opening of
the movie they showed the satellite the
Weyland brand satellite floating above
the earth and then the his technicians
discover a heat signature as the temple
turning on or the laser from the
predator ship turning the temple on yeah
why are they scanning for mysterious
underground temples and may or may not
exist when I first okay well I don't
have a satellite
for that I had that question when I
first saw that scene but I think they
have like one line somewhere buried in
this movie that explains it like they
were looking for oil or something stupid
oh okay we're scanning for something
else and then there's just something to
get this story go and Nathan so he's
looking for an energy source or oil or
some something something he scans it and
says oh there's a temple down there but
instead of passing that information off
to archaeologists or people he says I
want to go find that temple mm-hmm he's
dying
I guess because everybody to find a
temple
yeah I've know before I die interest in
temples yeah I don't have any interest
in temple or I wouldn't try to go did
one up in the ice
well this terminal geographical place
this scene here shows that he isn't
doesn't have much discrepancy with who
he hires because all these people are
dumbasses why they just let him fall
they tried to catch him no they just
watch him fall no and they followed by
the caused by this unfortunate what are
they worried about this is a gentle
slope he's gonna have a fun slide ride
down to the bottom and he's gonna beat
them all by an hour there could be a pit
of spikes at the bottom of that they
don't know they don't know what's at the
bottom and they're all gonna get down to
the bottom and he's gonna be sitting
down there like haha beat you beat you
to the bottom
here comes predators I think yeah
there's three predators right yeah and
this is their their little little
spaceships which look just like the
species 8472 spaceships from Star Trek
deployers nerd species ate it for nine
innocent fortnight in there I think
species whatever ate for seven eight
seven four okay so here's the predator
it's a nice the door opens you know it's
a predator door because there are little
symbols on it well this is something you
pointed out richness that they really
emphasize these flares yeah absolutely
lighting fire I was expecting a huge
payoff with the flares because she's
constantly using flares shooting off her
flare gun
yeah I was waiting for her to like stick
a flare and like an alien mouth
or something it never happens no what
happens instead nothing aliens and
predators punch each other a lien vs
predator scenes and this are great
they're they're SLOC but they're where
they are the Predators look a little off
they look a little goofy it's so good to
us when they do I bet find it it feels
like it feels like a video game it's
like fighting game like Mortal Kombat
with aliens and predator yeah yeah well
that's that's the interesting thing is
like neither the predator or the alien
series are about broad dumb action so
this movies just taking the most
superficial elements of both of those
series and turning it into rubber
monsters throwing each other around yeah
yeah there's no looming threat of any
kind yeah when I ever fear yeah what I
think it not that the predator had a
long lasting legacy there's the first
movie and then a sequel that a lot of
people don't like and then a sequel and
I think the second ones okay but the
first one is just so unique it works as
its own movie or it's not as one thing
and becomes something else and then when
I think of the alien series I think of
more sort of atmospheric brooding you
know I mean aliens there's more action
but they're they're more about the
atmosphere than anything else sure and
this is just yeah CJ you're a horror fan
that's why you like the first daily I I
prefer alien over aliens III for science
fiction action II kind of things so I
prefer the second one now both good
movies both fine movies movies they do
entirely different things
yeah and that's good I just good good I
mean
predator 2 was predator 1 but in the
famous city that's like Crocodile Dundee
see Crocodile Dundee vs. predator yeah
he'd say you call that a knife oh I
guess you do if you were gonna get out
here I by the predator that that's what
that's what I was doing oh yeah it's
usually the same thing but but more of
it I was reading
and I heard it like a snaps Asst I don't
remember any of the details but I'm like
the original script for aliens 3 or one
of them
the ending was 20 Queen aliens versus 20
power suits oh jeez it's like they just
took the ending of the first alien or
this I guess the second alien and they
just multiplied it by 20 yeah an
original script yeah it was gonna be
Michael Bain was gonna be the star it
was gonna be it's gonna be hit okay and
I I don't remember any of the details I
just remember laughing when I heard that
the ending was going to be 20 Queen
aliens
yeah that sounds like some of those
power loader suits that sounds like the
dumbest idea it sounds like something
they would think of right after aliens
was a big hit like I think that's the
first thought is like that we have to do
this bigger and but instead they decided
to go with a third movie that nobody
involved with was terribly satisfying
although I like that third movie I like
it more than aliens yeah it's it's fly
baby it's a good movie it's it's very
depressing that's why I like it I think
it's a good like I think it would I
think of the alien series I think of
those three movies Alien Resurrection is
like an afterthought yeah I mean the the
third one ends with Ripley and that's
that feels like a closure to the whole
culture yeah that that movie if people
wanted it to be something different yeah
and I and when I saw it too I felt the
same way you know you don't want to
Ripley to die in the end yeah you don't
want Newt and Hicks to be dead I mean
the opening credits and the opening
credits like you want like they're
aliens is the only one looks like a
happy ending
yeah no and and those movies shouldn't
have happy endings they should be misery
and I'm depressing because that's why
that's what it is but that's what threw
people off I mean the third one's so
much closer and in tone and severe to
the first movie but everybody loves the
action and the corny one-liners of
aliens so when you go back to something
a little more depressing and people are
like what is this yeah who's right they
haven't no nobody with the franchise
sense no I don't know what to do with it
it shouldn't be a franchise I think
that's part of it same with the editor
yeah they work as standalone movies
aliens was like a fluke it was so
different that it works
the tone movie mm-hmm keep cash this
check stay yeah it's not like either
series has this interesting mythology
and depth to it no the the aliens are
just animals yeah basically they're just
animals I got it well not really though
they like alien established them as a
space traveling civilization like they
had spaceships right I thought there was
some other spaceship was that planet
I didn't Prometheus went and fucked
everything on that the the thing in the
chair was not an alien but it was a big
blue body but it was a different race
yeah but in alien you know you get the
impression that that's their ship right
long time since I've seen the movie but
I imagine that my impression was that it
was some other alien you know the big
big alien thing as their ship and they
got infested with the aliens and they
ended up crashing on that planet because
of that okay or you could say they were
on that planet and then they got
attacked sure sure but it's ambiguous
and it doesn't really matter no not
until you get to prometheus when it's
the entire point yeah for some reason
not on the context of the first movie
yeah it doesn't matter but yeah I mean
the aliens are they act like dumb
animals so I guess that makes sense but
they're certainly smart you know oh yeah
their goals are very simple just
reproduce sure so this is character
number one that we're supposed to care
about getting attacked there's a there's
a predator hero shot which is
established in predator and ripped off
in this yeah the the Predators in this
movie are all too big and bulky they
look comical they've never really looked
as good as they do in the first movie no
they're holding wand in the first movie
yeah it looks like a guy in a Halloween
costume man yeah like a like a someone
at a convention like I made my predator
costume yeah that's like a cosplay thing
yeah I mean it's not it's not as bad as
that they should have winter coats on
though they have their skin exposed true
it makes sense when they're in the
jungle or in a heatwave in Los Angeles
but I ranked well later on in this movie
nobody feels cold anymore yeah yeah the
end of the movie is our main character
she's just outside in the Arctic no coat
on and apparently abandoned in the
middle of nowhere
no they show her next to a little car
that's already running for some reason
there yeah I think you would die in like
ten seconds - fifty kind it completely
exposed in the Arctic but does it really
matter not in this movie because
filmmakers don't care we don't care we
just got to save things punch each other
now this thing is you you recognize this
imagery here's an alien here's a
predator you know you know these things
well I think it's established that this
is a cash cash grab movie now but are
there any is there any merit to it at
all really
no I'd say the creature effects yeah
there's lots of physical creature stuff
there's a couple shots or you can tell
the aliens are CG but there's actual
creatures it's the same effects group
that did all the other alien movies and
their shot appropriately that's the
thing like sometimes you can I guess
part of one of my the things I didn't
like about aliens is they show them too
much where it's very clearly a guy in a
suit like when it sticks more in the
shadows and there's a lot more of that
yeah aliens they didn't have the it is
that they look fat in a lean yeah them
and and this they're more like agilent's
well because they had to have like a
hundred of them on screen at once that's
why they couldn't take their time no
yeah framing framing it up look
perfectly cuz they gotta have 100 of
them in the shop so that that that alien
queen at the end of alien I mean yeah
there's there's no better looking
creature in all of the cinema history
although it is limited by the technology
of the time it does move kind of
awkwardly and a little weird which I
guess that's another thing I'll give
this movie when it's running around at
the end so it's more fluid it's probably
a little sillier but yeah cuz they show
it too much but but all this stuff like
look at all these goopy effects lot of
slimy noises yeah I this Queen looks
good to me that I had eggs are neat and
they open up and so the the Predators
themselves build all these like devices
and assembly lines and all this shit or
do they make the humans do that for them
well I would assume the predator special
cuz they say in that flashback they say
that the the Predators got them to build
temples for him right yeah but all these
like the mechanics of it they wouldn't
know how to do that they taught them
it's a movie alright here's an
establishing shot of that sled that'll
come into play later a wonderful sled
sequence okay so here's my question yeah
it says the Predators come back every
hundred years right it does say that
yeah somewhere
let's say hundred hours like thousand
five hundred hundred okay
is it a complete coincidence that there
happens to be a polar expedition team
inside the temple when they come back
they say something about the heat flare
they got was to draw humans there they
okay there there is some bullshit line
about that yeah so in 1904 when they
came back did people also climb down
into the is that the whaling station is
that why the whaling station that could
be maybe there is a point of the whaling
station we're not giving this movie
enough credit what about 1804 there's
got to be at least one time in one of
those hundred year stretches where the
Predators come down and they're like oh
there's no one here I have to go now
right others went back to their home
planet just a little bit yeah yeah it's
almost like they're trying to shoehorn a
story where there is yeah it's like
they're trying to fill most of the movie
with nonsensical plot in order to pan it
out to a feature film to have a movie
where aliens fight predator it see as a
calendar sure sure okay wait wait why
can't they just like go out of the
jungle capture a few bears throw the
Bears down into the temple and then let
the Bears getting pregnant Italia's then
then they get to fight alien bears that
would be great it's it's established
that the alien parasite can host an
anything yeah and it adapts depending on
what animal would Center yeah so why not
why not music they're reliant I I don't
know
a lion predator that'd be heard a lion
alien would be interesting Olay Liam
Alejo Leland Lille yeah or you're just
abduct ten humans and bringing aboard
your spaceship just do a thing there
well this one originally it was the the
the Mayans or whoever was that they had
build these temples they had people that
would they were willing to offer up
sacrifice yeah so they sort of had the
the predator said that kind of changed
their plan over time I guess yeah that
was no longer the case and just kind of
like check back every now and then
hope polar expedition blank at your
temple yeah maybe I'm like every planet
like then the Predators have like a
little temple set up at the population
there and if like there's no humans
around this century well they just go to
the next backwards planet they go to the
boobies
these predators have a lot of time on
their hands yeah yeah the Predators are
the the Klingon contradiction of if
you're an advanced species that has
developed space travel you don't act
like a barbarian Sam I can't imagine a
Klingon warrior trying to figure out how
to make a warp engine sitting there with
like some spectacles on and that's
working at a computer it's not the
warrior way nerd should be murdering
things I'm trying to develop space
travel don't waste your time on such
things it's a contradiction basically
better it's a science fiction movie
well do the Predators do anything else
with their existence but go to planets
and hunt things you know that's all
we've ever seen them do we don't know
this could just be like elite rich
predator you could be a part of their
culture that's an interesting idea that
they're all like yeah they're like again
Harriers yeah yeah predators back home
or you know they wear suits other
planets not Kosan top hat cocktail
parties I'm ready for the big hunting
trip this weekend we're going down for
scintilla for sure you wear your monster
costume
yeah these costumes are sort of like a
joke to them it really scares the
natives yeah it's traditional we have to
wear them
Oh Indiana Jones Park this is where the
movie gets exciting and very now if the
old Aztec culture was willing to
sacrifice themselves why build the
temple and maze trap oh I like that yeah
I do like that that's clever
oh sure that she tries to stop subscribe
yeah it didn't work but you tried oh
yeah okay I do have a theory about the
transforming temple yeah
I I think this is something the
Predators have developed just to make
their alien hunt more interesting again
though when it's been established in the
other movies that they just like going
to the woods and hunt people or go to a
city and run around you know this is a
different type of hunting trip for them
okay this is like the big one that they
build up to all year yes a hundred years
every hundred years it's like like it's
like the difference between football and
baseball this is a different type of fun
okay yeah I guess we don't really know
what their what their hunting plans are
also in this movie when you get
impregnated by an alien you give birth
immediately mm-hmm whoa you get some
nice matrix shots there for some reason
it's not enough that were mining the
Alien and Predator series and stealing
from the movie cube you throw on some
some matrix visuals of the the chest
burster jumping through the air I'd
rather be watching cube okay here's
another question I have why did they
bring guns they pull these badass guns
out of a suitcase but they thought they
were going on an expedition to a lost
temple yeah were they expecting to find
enough monsters and you never know you
never be too prepared who are all these
guys
like I don't know like they should all
be nerdy scientists yeah so it makes you
wonder if Whalen had ulterior motives
they never yeah but they never hint at
that no no that's I mean okay like that
guy's like a special forces guy like I
mean maybe you bring like survivalists
I'd not not a I guess a military guy
would have survival skills so bring them
along but yeah that's a good point
oh I'd go to him into an abandoned
temple with all these all these guns
what if it's not abandoned that's the
one line you throw on the script to
establish that yeah
now whatever just throw that light in
and we'll move on it's possible there
are still Mayans living you better bring
machine gun yep already turn him yeah
that was five seconds yeah they've
really improved the process these aliens
from the first movie they've evolved the
present this takes place in the past so
they oh they've devolved okay remember
in the first Alien movie when it's all
creepy because it's just on their face
for days and you don't know what's
happening inside their body yeah that
was kind of neat it's so creepy oh come
on you have to you have to you can't do
that with this movie I know
move it along I know and perhaps the
Predators genetically altered the alien
queen to speed up the the gestational
process or whatever sure sure you don't
know you don't know I I don't know she's
wearing a shirt red shirt red shirt is
pg-13
yeah well that was something else I was
thinking of when we were watching this
the first time I was wondering if this
was pg-13 edited down from an R or if it
was originally shot as a pg-13 movie and
from the best I can tell the there was
like a rumor that this was originally an
r-rated movie but the director and the
writer both debunked that so so not only
did they not want to make a James
Cameron Ridley Scott Sigourney Weaver
alien movie they wanted to make a pg-13
alien vs predator kiddie movie yeah
that's so missing the point the point is
lots of money at least as far as the the
predator and you know what whichever
studio executives made that decision
from a financial point it worked out
because this was the most financially
successful movie in any of those series
of movies are you kidding I'm not
kidding
yeah inflation-adjusted and probably
yeah I don't know that for sure but I
did read it was the most financially
successful one
oh no I'm sad yeah yeah people don't
want everything about this movie is
depressing it's clearly a movie that let
you understand why it was made
yeah really like
the Predators have superior technology
yes is this really fun for them why are
they killing the human you can make the
same argument about any human hunter who
goes into the jungle and shoots an
animal with a rifle you can make the
exact same argument I don't know well
why are they killing the people here
like why are the people fighting the
Predators they want their guns and
explicable reason the Predators don't
bring their own guns yeah but they have
guns in the temple it's part of their
ritual
or something it's what it is is it a new
sale yeah so she's to have the Predators
fight the humans everything in this
movie is just a big excuse to have
things happen every every story element
we can't just have the aliens fighting
the Predators
I gotta have him fight humans too
because predator there's there's guns or
something and they want their guns back
house that house Everett excuse why
making guns make it some sort of little
statue or everything that's sacred to
them right the sacred gem of victory and
then when they say guns they want their
guns back it sounds so stupid
they say weapon they want their weapons
back there's Sarah ceremonial weapons
what
what what and then yeah okay moving
temple walls it conveniently separates
characters yeah all the time that's the
point wouldn't the Predators want to
lure them back into the sacrificial
chamber to make more aliens instead of
just murdering the humans why are they
killing the humans rich because they
already have enough of the proper number
of aliens that's probably a good answer
actually I think they need the guns to
kill the aliens efficiently because
they're using their leg blades to kill
the aliens but their blades keep melting
because of the acid why not just round
the alien so without without the guns
the Predators are mismatched it's a
favor of the aliens so they need those
guns why don't the the Predators just
just bomb the aliens from orbit and then
just go we did it I have a hunt at all
that's what they do if you're secretly
predators and they hunt like have you
seen three stone safety I've never been
hunting but I imagine it's a little more
challenging you know I think hunting is
a challenging thing it is yeah like you
have to be very quiet and patient and
deer deer can run away right very fast
right and it's very hard to hit a moving
target all those things you know I I'm
not an advocate for hunting and I've
never been but I soon it's a little more
challenging than just shooting something
with a laser gun at the same speed that
you could run right yeah we're having
like it's like us like stepping on ants
almost I don't consider that a hunt
here we have atmosphere going through
dark hallways with flashlights yeah what
what nothing these two guys do matters
because no matter what they're just
gonna be ground beef well yeah
it's sort of weird I just noticed that
that statue the part that just came back
out and closed the door it was like a
predator statue but it was an alien
insignia right on its crotch oh that's a
little odd you know what does that mean
that they they they fuck aliens what are
you thinking oh that's low there's the
slime we didn't read notice during the
opening of this it says it's rated pg-13
for what is it I haven't written down
horror okay horror images slime and gore
okay so you have to warn your audience
about slime yeah but that's the deciding
factor for parents gonna take their kids
to see this movie I don't know there's a
little bit of slime in it it should
really tell you how much slime cuz that
would really be the clincher small
amounts of slime there's just a little
bit of slime on the gun oh okay that's
not bad I wanna I want to put in the
Ghostbusters DVD and see who warns us
about slime watch ghostbusters let's go
the Ghostbusters 2 would be rated R now
if slime was an issue wait wait we're
missing the part where man is looking
with around with flashlights you guys
shut up for a minute this reminded me of
Jurassic Park oh yeah we have the one
Velociraptor in front and they do attack
from the side yeah cuz I have a girl
here's that clever girl on a piece of me
your ugly son of a bitch oh he's got a
quivering lip probably all I'm quivering
lips that's the that's the Elvis alien
and now gore no blood yeah anytime you
see blood in this movie it's like than
the most minimal amount possible so yeah
there's two missing factors here we see
people get killed right you
you want your audience to be scared
because you see what how horrific people
die right so we don't see that right and
the other point of this this whole movie
I guess is that they are now trapped in
the pyramid right but there is no system
or attempt at navigating your way out
yeah like we talked about cube right the
movie cube yeah
and cube is a movie where a bunch of
characters wake up in a room with death
traps and the rooms are all connected by
these doors and it's like the same room
over and over and over again and the
cubes constantly changing shape but
they're trying to figure out a way out
and they're like this room is colored
this so that's a dangerous room this
room is this and there's a system
involved and this like at least in
prometheus they had a map yeah going
everything's just random it's completely
random and we don't know where anyone's
going or why although I will say in the
case of Prometheus they had a map and
they still got lost
that's true but but typically one
character should say we need to go up
yeah whatever we're ever read I think
we're on the bottom and we need to try
and ascend and maybe there's a way out
up there yeah or try to get back to the
sled the sleds that way we have a homing
beacon we have to get that way there's
none of that so it is just people
walking around do you see that tiny
little bit of blood dripping down the I
did yeah that was frightening I'm also
terrified
well that was they they show that guy he
gets stuck under that net and then the
net starts turning and tightening yeah
like that could have been cool but then
the predator just stabs him yeah like I
wanna see that get tightening like they
even show that in resident yeah I was
going to get chopped into little pieces
I was gonna say that I think that's the
same actor isn't it I don't know and so
Paul WS Anderson must have a oh here it
is here's the trailer shot yep this is
the reason the movie was made
see you later
I can't appreciate the the costumes and
the physical alien props and stuff like
here here's our here's our fight this is
if you wanted the whole reason you went
to this movie was just to see an alien
rolling around on the floor with a
predator you get it here you know this
is it we have nothing to say about it
well it makes it makes you realize why
maybe this entire concept was a bad idea
why the fuck should we care I just
watched this scene and and it's shot you
know to the not a higher framerate but
um shutter the shutter is a little
quicker and it works and the camera
shaking and I just picture like the crew
filming it and these just these two guys
in rubber kind of like the when you pull
yourself out of it yeah take away all
the sound effects the music and you just
got two guys in rubber suits rolling
Orange punch him a little mark here with
the saying we should care because of
human beings but well the humans have
nothing to do with the sequence though
yeah we don't care who wins the fight
between the alien and the predator
unless you're a little kid who's just
like the predator is cool I want him to
win yeah but dramatically there's
nothing going on no cuz the outcome of
their fight doesn't have anything it
doesn't very anything although the in
the movies defense slightly it does sort
of become we have to stop the aliens and
work with the predator yeah yeah you
know so there is there is some stakes
set up well yeah a little bit later but
this is just for two this is this is
just yeah gratuitous and at the same
time it's the only reason the movie
exists right which is sort of weird
it's these things can do cool things
yeah isn't it cool and he's flipped his
blood at them and burned them the blood
flip thing is candy there are some neat
neat ideas of visually sure but the
movies movies hollow that's hollow yeah
why are we watching this I wonder if
they make improvements on that an alien
vs. predator Requiem I doubt it I'll
watch that it's yeah I think that's
something we should watch next what I
understand that is rated R is that a
Paul WS Anderson movie or no it's
someone else he had moved back to
Resident Evil by that point I think okay
not stated the second one I don't think
anybody did this was like a huge hit
that one I think was a big flop well
good for everyone we don't people saw it
for the novelty and they saw it they
were like I get it no I guess but yeah
where do you go from here do I really
want to see this again yeah really you
kind of see everything you need to see
in an alien fighting a predator in this
movie yeah yeah use of the acid blood
use of all the the Predators gimmicks
and weapons and there's nothing left at
the end of this let's do it all again
well they should I wrote a better script
established a better storyline and well
you're not gonna get a better more
intelligent character than Weyland in
this scene oh yeah this is when he
realized that that Weyland the head of
the Weyland corporation is a huge retard
yeah she should ask him before he dies
why they he brought them there this what
a good point for some kind of plot twist
a revelation or something yeah he knows
what's going on he knew all along
something he wants to steal the
Predators technology and profit
or whatever yeah guys and more guys show
up with guns and capture the predator it
was all my plan to get the there maybe
what if this turned out to actually be a
bishop robot and nor that real Whalen
shows up and he knew what was going on
all along yeah I'm surprised they didn't
shoehorn of Android into this yeah the
time frame oh yeah I guess mm okay this
isn't in the future
strike that reverse it we've already
forgot already movie takes place it
doesn't matter well he's he's using the
lighter and hair spray to kill I don't
think it's the future groans what okay
and here goes Weyland don't worry he'll
come back to life as a guy Pierce yeah
that's the how do you like is this Canon
I don't think would this be considered
Canon obviously Prometheus is canon with
the original alien ignores the rest of
the series
well no didn't they say Prometheus is
not an alien prequel like I think that's
that's what they said that was their
whole thing but it but it's in the same
world and it nobody knows but what's the
thing we need to know yeah it'd be nice
to know but I mean like obviously the
first yeah III guess you would say all
the first four Alien movies connects
their continuing storyline but what is
this this is a sideshow this is this is
a way for us to you know to make money
off of yeah with the exception of
Weyland as a character in this it could
but that's the thing it does have
wailing nobody who made this gave a shit
about the franchise not know it clearly
yeah look out look out predator Italy in
this thing is the character I care about
he's the mo
oh I guess he is the Master Hunter okay
you see the only one left at this this
is cool this is kind of neat
it's brain and it comically slumps to
the ground yeah the other two predators
have been killed at this point so it's
just him and he now wants to stop the
aliens from getting out of control
because why well he realizes the
situation's gotten fucked up beyond his
control but why does he care their
hunting trip turned insane yeah well
what was it what what were they
expecting though went according to plan
as far as I know right well they're
supposed to get their guns so they could
kill the aliens easily yeah then their
hunt would be flashbacks ooh them are
dead yeah they establishing that
flashback that when things get fucked up
they just blow everything up set a bomb
all so why doesn't he just do that yeah
well spaceship and fly away and blow
everybody up they do well what happened
but what's he doing right now he's
taking the time to give himself a
ceremonial marking because he killed an
alien and these guys are talking at full
volume right on the other side there's
always time to burn your face for the
asset okay is the predator now caught in
his own trap like does he know how to
make the the temple move around to get
out no I don't think he does I think
that he's caught his own trap
that's not very smart I'm supposed to
easily get the guys they didn't
anticipate the human being stealing
their guns okay so they're on the guns
but if they had the guns does that still
mean they work on their own trap like
that is the design that's the game do
that are you this just yes because they
should have a little failsafe button
that says undo the temple thing yeah so
I can get out he has an asthma attack
his respirators yeah picture his jobs
during an asthma attack
and what if his wife calls about
important information up there banking
world honey where victims of ID theft
come back to the home planet
I'm hunting I'm hunting things when are
you gonna get a real job honey there's a
comical amount of aliens yeah this is a
little ridiculous yeah well I guess I
guess it's olive as technician that I
think they're implying that this is how
the Mayan civilization vanished
overnight but yeah the alien infestation
got out of control
yeah so then they wiped them all out
with the bomb and that's how the
ancients vanished off the face of the
earth
I guess it's quicker for the aliens to
get out of control population wise in
this movie when the face augur turns
into an alien in one minute yeah that's
that's true they waited a little while
to blow that bomb off though until there
was 50,000 oh yeah I think that's a oh
shit all these people are impregnated
all these aliens are gonna be born
maybe we should blow everything up now
yeah but then you don't have a shot you
can put in the trailer yeah cool shot
what
oh my god what what I guess this is that
slime they're talking about this is this
is a lot of slime I I don't know a child
under 13 should be explode exposed to
this level of slime no that's why I took
Nickelodeon off the air mm-hmm
double their level there is no radar you
can't do that on television now you
really can't do that on television set
by when someone gets don't you just lost
three-quarters of double dare what the
fuck is that
but shots a little awkward it takes a
very long time to get to the eggs yeah
you want to expose that immediately the
one to worry and then you're there yeah
I had a great looking set though well no
no no although the aliens coming out of
their own eggs look great
so is this a movie that's generally um
disliked on the Internet I believe when
this came out a lot of people flat out
hated it
yeah because there was such a like I
mean the first alien versus Predator
comic was 1990 and there was video games
and had been something that people for
whatever reason we're looking forward to
four years and then when it finally
comes out it's this dumb plot about
people running around a temple yeah so I
think people that genuinely gave a shit
about seeing an alien vs. predator movie
that actually thought it would be
something other than schlock I was right
I was disappointed by this yeah okay
well what you were expecting a more
larger scale story lion yeah I was
expecting a science fiction movie and
not a dumb excuse to have two monsters
fight oh my god what's wrong with you I
think that was yeah I'm gonna blame the
audience I mean anyone expecting
anything more than what this actually is
well I only read the first miniseries
but it's actually decent Jerry good
Susan it's a science fiction story
there's sets well what what is the
general story of it well what makes it
because I think this delivers on alien
vs. predator as far
the effects and the action and stuff
like that but what happens in the
miniseries like generally speaking
there's there's a space colony and the
Predators seed eggs on the planet so
they could start a hunt kind of similar
to this only without like the the
temples and the worshiping mmm only this
uh the the alien queen sneaks a queen
alien egg on there so the aliens get out
of control on the space colony but I
think this focus on the story was more
on the humans and trying just to survive
this both both predators and aliens
running around okay so a bit of a larger
scale in terms are just kill it's been a
long time since I've read it yeah the
basically you're saying is the human
characters were more I think so but it's
been 10 15 years since like I've read it
so well I mean these characters I
remember I remember really enjoying the
book that okay okay so and it does end
with the the main female teaming
becoming best friends with a predator
right yeah yeah they're best friends
they're not best friends whatever she's
his best friend in this what's that
above them is that a way out that like
yeah is that the sky I guess I don't
think anybody knows what that is that's
the sky it couldn't be the sky though
because this thing's buried under oh and
it's at night tons of ice yeah nighttime
what is that I think it's supposed to be
the sky I think it's just visual I think
it's just you know it is it's dumb look
at how emotional she is she looks very
terrified for her life right here and
I'm sad to see that guy go because he
was the Italian guy yeah
well that was her potential love
interest now we're potential love
interest is the project the the the
alien his head aliens head comes right
next to his head and then I cuts to the
next shot that's not there and the alien
pulls him by his foot yeah
aliens wouldn't do that but it's a
little alien tongue would shoot bust his
skull apart yeah and all of his brain
matter and blood would splatter all over
her face that would be great and then
she would get parts of his brain in her
mouth Oh what the alien killed person
when they just capture him to bring him
to the hive it was yeah well sometimes
the aliens kill people right and then
sometimes they drag them back and put
them up in the web and make they do
whatever is convenient whatever they do
yeah I guess they're trying to the first
alien all he does is kill people because
it's just a scared monster on it yeah
foreign spaceship yeah and it has no
eggs access to eggs right but I guess
this one knows that there's a roomful
eggs and a queenie nearby and they're
trying to multiply to win the battle
where the aliens are somehow invested in
the battle - yeah i guess in the
original alien isn't there a deleted
scene where the alien is actually
turning people into eggs or just doing
something weird to the people i no idea
about that because you know this is
before aliens before there was an alien
queen right so i thought there was like
a deleted scene where I was like
explaining like where the eggs came
that was the people I remember there
being something weird like that I'll cut
out of the moment I think you're
thinking of Coneheads oh yeah yeah no
remember the part in Coneheads when they
go to Subway
oh you mean half the movies yeah don't
they have multiple scenes in the subway
yeah they do this is a good time to talk
about Coneheads in this part in the
movie this is when she just wanders
around I would be so great if just like
Dan Aykroyd and the Coneheads costume
walk dangled aliens vs. predator vs.
co-heads Coneheads don't worry you know
speak it's like like say what you want
about Coneheads but I remember that
movie they go to the conehead planet and
they have to fight a giant monster thing
and it's like classic stop-motion looks
like Star Wars II type monster really
yeah that was like the the the that may
be the last stop-motion monster in a
major movie ever I was like right on the
tail on maybe I didn't even see the full
movie Oh what was points to their
product placement Department Deepika is
them eating subway yeah yeah was Chris
Farley in that yeah he was the the
teenage daughters love interest okay I
like how when she shoves a spear through
the alien a conveniently does not splash
acid wanna know when it all went out the
back of it okay yes sure they really
must have had to clean that skull out
real good before she put her hand in it
to use it as a shield like maybe the
predator has some sort of weapon that
does that there's a lot of guesswork
involved this happen you know what the
best movies leave a lot of to your
imagination and they let you interpret
it oh wait wait stop that that's that's
is that the magic ceremonial gun on the
shoulder yeah that was it yep oh my god
that's so stupid okay you see how easy
it is to kill aliens when you've got a
shoulder gun though it's the point
that's the point you see how easy it is
to write an alien vs. predator movie
when you don't care about anything okay
so now I just wiped them all out yeah
let's go home so okay so the ceremonial
gun was the shoulder the predator
shoulder yeah yeah okay see I thought
and it eliminated any challenge that the
the Predators would have of fighting the
aliens thus defeating the entire purpose
of setting up this whole ceremony
ceremonial thing were they on aliens
yeah so it's like good job
that's like I'd like a deer hunter using
napalm yeah look I begged or heard those
have their skeletons throw my oh fuck
I think there's a couple deer in the
square mile area get hurt get the fa-18
with the napalm so I'm guessing in order
to make the alien head a Ville for her
to wear it like the the Predators arm
device thing it must have a little
compartment with like hand sanitizer in
it and that's how we cleaned it up yeah
well I don't think do they show let's
watch and see right here in this very
scene I don't think they show how he
cleans it up like I'm sure okay oh he's
he's using the blood acid oh he's doing
something he's actually doing something
smart here he's demonstrating to her
that it it protects yeah the acid
because she needs protection of what why
is he bringing her along anyway because
she might my interpretation
she killed an alien snow he respects her
yeah okay and she got him his gun back
okay so okay but she should say I know
the way out or something like I have
information but she doesn't know the way
out yes no one knows anything come on
let's go this way I guess now they're
buddies yeah now they're best friends
okay this is something they did in Alien
Resurrection yeah when all the aliens
were locked up in one room so they
sacrificed one so the blood would drip
through the floor and they could all get
out which was clever which was clever
nets in that particular scene but now we
get it again a lot of things now why did
they bother to mark that alien so we
know what's the air we know it's the
alien but he doesn't come back he's
nothing he's not stronger he's not more
challenging to the predator than any of
the other aliens but he's an alien that
we recognize now yeah I don't think
there was any particular reason that
they did that maybe so they could have a
special toy do they have toys for this
movie they had you know that's probably
a why do you remember like before this
came out this it might have been an even
before alien resurrection at least the
first three alien movies were out and
they started making aliens action
figures yeah like years after the fact
or even alien and weren't like alien vs.
predator action figures weren't there
there probably were because there was so
many like video games and comics and
stuff because I remember having some of
the alien ones aliens or alien aliens
yeah they were toys specifically based
on aliens years and years after the fact
which is odd that's back when they made
toys based on violent r-rated films
rainbow toys a Robocop to lease Academy
police academy action figures yeah well
yeah those are more for like comic book
nerds kind of thing like no not a lot
kids - oh really
yeah I want an action figure of this
character we still don't know her name
we've never been told her name in the
entire film I think the guy might say in
the very beginning like he's like but
the helicopter part but I'm not sure
what her name well there's not a lot of
time to establish characters names when
you're too busy having them sort of
wander around yeah that's more important
what this is the point in the movie
where you go take a bathroom break
I might go do that now
Sebastian Oh his name is Sebastian yeah
I'm gonna go take a bathroom break oh oh
this is the dramatic moment when she has
to shoot him yeah because the
chestburster is about to come out but we
don't see the result of her shooting
this pg-13 so they mustn't reach the
surface why do they know that right like
what happens yeah they don't know that
they don't know anything about this
species in the first movie they the
first Alien movie they discovered the
species they discover how it you know
procreates and all this stuff and then
it makes sense like these are dangerous
here these guys don't know anything yeah
but we do do you release they explain
this all again I mean no I'd rather have
them do go in a completely different
direction where they don't have to just
assume everything this is kind of fun
snap that little baby's neck and flies
and he catches it I no longer have
sympathy for this predator he just
killed him infant yeah see they just
killed that one mmm that would the one
with the crisscross marks on his head he
shows up again later he's not dead they
killed a different one Oh more of that
slime everything I knew it was wrong
that's pretty cool
hey flex on this are pretty good for the
most part yeah they're not bad and it's
not like really jarring ly bad CGI you
know yeah which is was a lot more common
in 2004 than it is now yeah I remember
Alien Resurrection was about 98 99
something like that yeah something like
that
I remember that that there's a scene
where they had to swim underwater right
yeah some level yeah I'm kind of sketchy
yeah it's a neat set-piece idea you know
I got a sister I haven't seen any of
them after three
oh really yeah well there's only Alien
Resurrection and I'm so lonely and then
it comes to this I thought there was
another one no no that was the last
running chaga not the best as we say the
effects in this are better than we would
expect yeah not all great it was just a
flat shot of them running yeah I'm
looking here we have the famous predator
countdown to explosions about yeah on
the famous sled sequence this is the
best part of the movie this is yeah
urgency release internal what what is
the silliest thing we can see a predator
do go on a sleigh ride well note that in
the movie the alien knocked off his
shoulder done it's good he had that for
one scene
oh here they use their one fuck their
one pg-13 fuck earlier in the movie so
they couldn't have her say you're one
ugly motherfucker
oh yeah there it is actually I wonder if
that's a like pg-13 you can't say
motherfucker you can say fuck her fuck
her in a non-sexual way but you can't
say motherfucker because it has weird
connotations owner if that's the case
whoa okay so they've here we go this is
the famous Oh God ed your own what kind
of magic it's on a cable and it goes it
can outrun an explosion that's how it
was designed to yeah they didn't show
her like like set speed to warning
that's unsafe velocity yeah there would
be no reason if you're just doing a
polar expedition to leave your
expedition site yeah at 500 miles an
hour unless you find aliens unless here
petition site probably go like one mile
an hour very slowly to bring up a couple
of rocks up some artifacts yes yeah and
you probably wouldn't have to lay down
on it no I'll be very uncomfortable for
the 20-minute ride up yeah god Ron guys
and then here's the the inevitable boss
fight yeah yeah the the the reoccurring
theme of everything's blown up but the
Queen made it through and she's gonna
show up and fight you cuz you gotta
fight the Queen it has to happen well
like I said they're trying to squeeze
every possible combination of Alien and
Predator team ups and fights and
everything into this did they do a very
very good job at writing the script then
if that was all they were trying to
accomplish they got it all in there they
made their money so yes yeah so a bad
movie is extremely effective and
profitable it's effective at what is
trying to be which is just fanservice
well it's effective if you're someone
that all you want to see is an alien
fighter predator you see a nice variety
of that in this movie well unfortunately
that's all you get you can see any
random clip of any of these fights on
YouTube and it would have the same
impact right yeah you wouldn't have to
watch the whole movie yeah yeah there's
no emotional investment or no storyline
to follow yeah mystery or anything it's
just a fanservice essentially yeah all
the elements were squeezed in so
anything they missed their yeah they got
a predator versus a facehugger where he
cuts it in half with us yeah well blade
boomerang thing they used the chest
burster alien that we got to see that
yeah we got to see predator vision
predator shoulder laser cannon Queen
alien alien eggs opening all that stuff
yeah because
the pg-13 rating the only who really
didn't see is the the yanking the skull
and spinal column oh yeah yeah that's
something they couldn't get away with
the predator does that yeah well though
that was like a kill shot right there
right across the neck but not for the
Queen alien no I guess just a little
tougher maybe it'll take her a little
while to die just kind of bleed out okay
fair enough
see if I was that lady I'd be like those
two are fighting each other I'm on get
out of here now well I got out of the
temple I'm off to be fair she knows that
this thing has to die or or the aliens
might be trapped on Antarctica where
they can't hurt the rest of you you know
it might it might make more eggs that
just lie there and freeze this is true
it's running through whale bones it's
this whole movie a metaphor this whole
movie Moby Dick to be told
fuck you that's what they're saying with
that visual imagery oh so there is a
person in the whole whaling know he
throws the spear you know the Captain
Ahab I think I think this really is a
modern-day retelling of Herman
Melville's classic just with lots and
lots of stupidity that's the most stupid
and out of character predator shot this
movie is so well cartoon oh that's the
kind of shit I'm expecting in the new
Robocop remake like Robocop flipping
around and doing dumb shit like that
I guess this goes without saying and you
probably already know this but it's
pg-13 Robocop is the most violent movie
in the history of the world violence is
a big part of the movie it's it's yeah
yeah
get into all that they got it the things
things could fall oh maybe not no no
you're trying to pop up bolt off with a
shovel yeah yeah oh here's our other
trailer shot yeah
now we have the Queen and the predator
with his mask off so now we've seen
every possible combination of things
yeah I would the predator ever take his
mask oh he always does but why yeah for
the big nasty reveal of course I think
of in the first predator doesn't like
his something like his respiratory
whatever device he has like it gets
fucked up or something so he has to take
it off I just remember like that yeah
it's like a big awesome reveal yeah well
everything's quicker in this one cuz I
got to get to the point what is the
point
a predator ended up like that became
like man vs. predator you know like they
bid mano-a-mano like it yeah yeah that's
like the predator has this advantage but
then it became a battle of the Wits
almost like and this is just dumb action
there is no clever premise except for
lady becomes friends with a monster and
then other monsters come and pick up
this monster and leave her abandoned in
the Arctic yeah they do leave her with
proof of extraterrestrial life though
which is neat I don't think she gives a
flying fuck know her her pseudo Italian
boyfriend if I were here right now all I
care about is getting the coat she
doesn't care about any of these
characters though she was just hired to
do this thing yeah she doesn't really
know any of them in love she was I
she was hired to get everybody out alive
and she failed miserably
yeah she's bad at her job that's that's
what we learned from this movie she had
to shoot a guy in the face
before a monster burst out of his chest
I mean that's she's going to be in
therapy for a while but she does not
have any frostbite despite standing I'm
the the Arctic Pole of the earth
yeah it's negative 75 degrees no no no
now we have the ending of predator 2 how
about this for a theory the the predator
spaceship engines are emitting much
amount of heat where it's it's warming
the outside ok so she's not fucked until
they leave yeah but there's a little car
that's sitting there with the engines
running their lights on how long is that
thing been running I don't know it's
just ah I think the predator has turned
it on the one guy whispered it does she
have a way to go out of here there's a
little car over there turn on very
convenient can you give me a lift I
don't need a spear I need to live I'm
gonna do it this I don't want to hunt
monsters I just wanted to have Brees the
dead I can stand myself before I freeze
that done she can hunt like sea lions
for thanks for all the violence yeah and
yeah she should be much more upset with
them than she is she should have some
emotion on her face yeah I guess
something would be good but here's that
little device it's on who knows who
turned it on and how long it's been
there but I guess she can get away with
that and there's no like conclusion to
her character she doesn't come home and
well you can't have a conclusion to a
character that has no character to begin
with don't reunite with her family and
it's no arc
there's no arc to be had
none whatsoever this is and this is the
sequel this is the the now is this
followed up in aliens vs. predators - I
have absolutely no idea they would have
to they couldn't just abandon this sure
they could this is like oh man I can't
wait to see what they're gonna do with
that like you can't just get rid of that
I mean you can and they probably do but
it's stupid yeah I don't think they
follow any kind of guidelines or rules
he asked us shoving the the the
recognizable things that people have
seen and have lots of action thanks Paul
WS Anderson so this is an hour 28 what
is the full running time of this movie I
think it was an hour 40 something no no
a hundred minutes but I think was on the
box
okay minutes yeah so just lots and lots
of credits for some reason well you know
they really like the credits they're all
very proud of the work they did on this
film walter hill was a producer yeah he
did all the original movies he bad-mouth
Alien Resurrection but he's okay with
this really yeah
Alien Resurrection you have not seen
that rich right I've not seen it spoil
it on Commission well it's been it's
been 20 years I haven't seen it yet it's
like this but better it's a little bit
better well it's it's weirder it's they
hired this french director I've seen the
end with the human alien hybrid that
gets sucked out of a window
okay which is kind of that alien-human
hybrid is kind of dumb looking but I
liked it I liked that whole um that
whole element of Ripley having like the
mother connection with it yeah it was
kind of sad when she had to kill it yeah
I think I felt the motioned right well
that part when she goes into the room
with all the the first attempts to
cloner and they're all like mutants and
oh yeah like lots of weird visuals in
that movie yeah and and the the the
ragtag group heroes which is now a
staple since aliens
yeah there are 10 times more interesting
than many of these oh yeah you got Ron
Perlman you have the weird little man in
the wheelchair and so you need
characters is the summary yeah yeah yeah
you need characters that you care about
and
you need emotional investment and though
and then the action and the special
effects and the slime and the aliens and
all the coolness is icing on the cake
yeah
you need a cake but I think you can't
just eat the frosting or else it's it's
it's too sugary and it's bad for you and
you get the diabetes or else you're
going to end up looking like paul Blart
apart yeah yeah
alien versus Predator versus paul blart
mall cop can we get that it's a thing a
movie would be two minutes long I'm
shocked they never made robocop vs
terminators Oh
I'm assuming that was the rights issue I
bet somebody had that idea at some point
there was a comic book oh there was yeah
okay first of all their words did all
that shit that was Dark Horse - yeah I
guess that's not surprising why do they
get rights to do that they just that's
that was how they made their living
getting the rights to things and making
money off of the license that people
liked really yeah did they do any
original comics their curse
there was a just stuff like that
probably a smattering I think the masks
oh they did the masks okay mr. Mays a
terminator would win in a robocop vs
terminators fight rubble come was easily
outwitted he was slow and awkward yeah
all you have to do is like I always said
the Robocop contradiction was you just
have to say don't shoot me everyone
fires their guns at rubble and it's
completely pointless
it's the bullets just bounce off them
and then just don't shoot your gun at
Robocop and then say and he can't do
anything
put your hands up and say I'm unarmed
and run away he cannot possibly run
after you that's true so every villain
justice or guns at him and because
you're shooting your guns at him that
gives him the right to fire back and
kill you put your gun down say I give up
I'm going to run away now and you can't
shoot a fleeing suspect in the back it's
against his protocol okay
anyways thank you for listening to our
commentary on aliens vs. predator yeah I
I'm so sorry that you wasted
two hours of well you know you could
have wasted two hours of your life just
watching alien versus Predator at least
you have a slight distraction or you
could have been volunteering at the
local homeless shelter Wow helping an
elderly woman cross the street but
instead you did this with your life
thank you and good night
