Jan 24, 2014
Red Letter Media Updates: New Commentary Tracks and more!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJTYX8gG6Yw
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/427266388990758913
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10203110454388006

hi everyone I'm Jay and I'm Mike and
we're here to tell you that we've got
two new commentary tracks available
that's right J full-length commentary
tracks for alien vs. predator and
samurai cop are both available now where
can people get these commentary tracks
from Mike I'm glad you asked J you could
get them on our Bandcamp page which is
accessible through our website red
letter media com are these mr. blinken
commentary tracks who's that
no sir they're not they feature me and J
and rich Evans you know when's the next
Lincoln review well actually I read
somewhere online that mr. blanket is
working on a new video review right now
yeah I believe it when I see it just
like my movie I'll believe that when I
see it well speaking of mr. Plunkett he
also has commentary tracks still
available for The Phantom Menace Star
Wars Episode four and Star Trek 5 the
final frontier
whenever nobody cares like who is that
that's space cop J Oh space cop that's
right we're also still shooting space
cop and things are going smoothly the
only crimes like here to solve the crime
second side
we're crime someone else could solve so
I don't have to
but seriously we are still working very
hard on space cuff building sets and
shooting scenes whenever we can all the
while continuing to make new episodes of
half in the bag and best of the worst we
also shot segments for doc of the Dead
which will be premiering at the South by
Southwest Film Festival in March why
don't you two get a real chin up he's
right he has a point
