Oct 17, 2015
A Nightmare on Elm Street
http://redlettermedia.bandcamp.com/track/a-nightmare-on-elm-street-commentary-track

boo hello and welcome to our spooky red
letter media commentary track for
Nightmare on Elm Street I'm J I'm Mike
and I am Richard Evans and this is the
Nightmare on Elm Street brought to you
by Wes Craven yeah it's a it's an
unfortunate thing like we talked about
doing this commentary several months ago
as this October's commentary track wait
Freddy wears glasses
brother glasses on there they could've
been two victims glasses oh maybe they
could have been one of the the children
that he violently murdered no we don't
know much about pre ghosts Freddy he may
have worn glasses possible it's possible
I would imagine he does not need them in
the dream world because he's a being
that can turn into snakes and put
himself in video games so I don't think
he needs to wear his glasses he's filled
with maggots - oh sure that's right yeah
yeah but he I guess he retains his burn
victim look just to intimidate just to
fuck with people his 
Mike: Anyway, you were saying, Jay?
Oh, yeah.
Well, between the time we started talking about doing this and now, uh, Wes Craven has passed away.
So rest in peace, Wes Craven.
Sure.
And I feel bad, too, because I, I've been very critical of Wes Craven over the years.
Uh, I think on our Scream 4 episode of Half in the Bag, I said something, like, like, 90% of his movies are terrible, which is a gross exaggeration.
But I feel bad about it now, because I revisited a lot of his stuff after he passed away, and, uh, I, I realized that even his bad movies are not bad due to a lack of ideas.
Like, even his bad movies are at least ambitious failures.
well what does he have to his
name other than nightmare at home street
and scream what is what is Last House on
the Left three decades in a row he sort
of changed the direction that horror was
going in Last House on the Left in the
70s nightmare um Street in the 80s and
then scream in the 90s yeah pretty
consistent with with changing the course
of horror films yeah I mean he is
sitting in the afterlife regretting the
fact that the editor used Comic Sans
no what can you do hey what can you do
it wasn't a scary faun back then it was
a scary font back yeah it wasn't uh
didn't have the reputation that it now
has right exactly and this actress
playing Tina here is Amanda Weiss who we
all know and love from jacquimo oh my
god really she is in chocolate
is is fake-out protagonist a a Wes
Craven thing well I think Alfred
Hitchcock did well I know he started
yeah um but I mean that wasn't common
outside of this in psycho that that's
not something that's been used a whole
lot thankfully cuz it would get
predictable I know the slow running
there yeah there's so many things like
this that could potentially be comical
but work in the the the fact that it's a
dream
so something something I noticed
watching this you know the Freddy we're
kind of more familiar with who's Freddy
kind of evolved yes over the years it's
kind of funny how the dream sequences
aren't really over elaborate debts like
I know in the later movies the dream
sequences are always nutty where people
would turn J yeah and but but the
real-world stuff the death in this like
what's happening them while they're in
the dream like like is really creative
and visual like she's rolling around at
the ceiling at some point like yeah yeah
oh my god Freddy cut the mothers hair
Jesus Christ did she it looks like her
lipstick is smeared I think it was
implying she was having sexual
intercourse with her husband okay that
would make sense
slut no slut-shaming on the Freddy
commentary rich my wife can have sexual
intercourse with her husband yeah she's
a slut oh my god anyway so now we're
introduced to the the famous one two
Freddy's coming for you Nursery Rhyme
yeah so so many iconic things in this
movie I think this movie so at this
point everybody knows Freddy and because
of the later movies he kind of became
more comical and people think of him
that way is like jokey and goofy and
more fantasy elements but I think people
are so familiar with the concept at this
point the it's easy to take for granted
just how brilliant of an idea this movie
is like the core concept oh yeah yeah
there's a there's a monster in your
dreams and if he kills you you die for
real like that itself is such a scary
idea
and and executed properly for the time
yeah I mean there's some elements of
this movie that are a little dated there
was some unintentional laughs moments
when we were watching this the other day
but it's still pretty great I love that
they're friends of the 1950's greaser
greaser greaser oh you said greaser is
that like I'm old greaser greaser a
geezer greaser a greaser I get it
everyone's hair on this film just keeps
getting bigger and bigger as the movie
progresses yeah yeah and that was that
was Jonathan Depp introducing who just
ran past the screen there he later went
on to be Willy Wonka in the hit film
Willy Wonka Charlie and the Chocolate
Factory or whatever the fuck it was
called yeah did he do anything else I
think it was just this in that right
yeah I think so
well he was in 21 Jump Street oh yeah oh
of course
yeah the film with chattington yes yeah
cameo there I don't know why right right
but he's most known for being Willy
Wonka anyways this a little bit with the
sound effects tapes came out clever as
far as a time filler scene with our
characters yeah a hangout scene it's
where you get to get to know your
victims before they start getting killed
off attention to characters which a lot
of slashers in the 80s kind of didn't
bother with after a while shockingly few
victims yeah not a big body count there
doesn't need to be no yeah no this movie
is it's funny because people consider
this a slasher movie I guess but it
feels so different from everything else
especially from that that era but even
today where it's really it's more about
it's more surreal it's more about
atmosphere it's not about the kills
would you consider it more of a comedy
today the sequels are more comedies
today
we have as our lead girl here we have
Heather Langenkamp who was also in Wes
Craven's new nightmare and not much else
she was in Nightmare on Elm Street 3 she
wasn't Nightmare on Elm Street 3 right
yeah you know you know new nightmare is
a fantasy film because she plays a
working actress in it yeah she she sucks
and that's that's the one thing that I
don't like about this movie I mean I
know I this was a I don't know if it was
a Wes Craven's first movie or oh no God
no no but why is it so terrible her
acting no at the movie why like the
mother in this is just god-awful it
feels like it always reminds me of
Halloween like John Carpenter like early
John Carpenter movie but you know where
it's like low budget yeah and this feels
like like it should should be Wes
Craven's very first film where has a
budget of $100,000 are you are you
talking specifically about the
performances uh there specifically the
mother and Heather Langenkamp yeah
mother is like rent an actress from a
Lifetime network TV show well see she
plays it's so overdramatic and an awful
yeah I think she's trying to play drunk
cuz that's what she's supposed to be but
it comes across awkward I would agree I
mean that actress is Ronnie Blakely like
she has a long history she's been in a
ton of stuff but I don't know if I've
seen anything else she's in so I can't
compare her performance in this she's
been in a ton of stuff because a ton of
stuff has been in her I have to say that
even Halloween had Jamie Lee Curtis well
yeah she wasn't anybody at the time
though no but she was quality yeah III
see this is the thing as and I eat I
will attribute this to us Craven is I
don't think Heather Langenkamp is a good
actress but I still like her in this
movie not her performance but the
character also I have seen her in a
couple other things outside of West
Craven movies that she is pretty bad in
you know gives the best performance in
this film Johnny Depp he's the most
believable
yeah likable yeah person just comes
across like a real real kid and everyone
else over acts the pretty sir or the
greaser guy is is awful and irritating
and then Heather Langenkamp is
overacting the mothers overacting I
guess John Saxon is is good too he's
always solid he's just a solid performer
solid working actor I was first girl who
dies not bad
Tina yeah it's nothing compared to her
performance in shock come on no no but
you know is that the only other thing we
would know her from uh she has a small
part in Fast Times at Ridgemont High and
she's the ex-girlfriend and better off
dead the John Cusack movie because she
looked familiar to me and I guess no in
hindsight I guess it's just shock but I
remember which were you shocked to
realize that shock mud yes Chuck one
must not have been too long after or
before this cuz I think your hair is
roughly the same yeah I want to say she
was a little after this shock was about
a killer monkey it's just a killer
monkey it's a killer monkey with with
with like brain damage and who doesn't
love a quality
story like that yeah and it's it's
killed by a guy who isn't Mark Hamill
with a mirror yeah he outwits a monkey
barely well the monkey jumps through a
mirror and into furnace right yeah he
sets a mirror up in front of like a
incinerator Tyson with Freddy Krueger
there you go they did they trick the
trick Freddy Krueger to jump into the
furnace with like a mirror that's how he
was originally she doesn't set Freddy on
fire at the end yeah that is the great
spoilers if you haven't seen this film
but she sets Freddy on fire at the end
which I always thought was stupid like
fire
he's already burnt up well sure but he's
in the real world again fire but then
kill him in the real world exactly well
it turns out it's not the real imagine
he opens up a dimensional portal in the
bed and jumps on her mother and vanishes
into another dimension
so all the rules of the movie were
thrown out the window well no because
that turns out to also be a dream you
are meant to believe that Freddy's in
the real world yeah he's not the concept
to say as much as I like this movie not
the strongest third act no I would say
we yeah apart part of that I mean the
very the last scene is that's Robert
Shaye the head of New Line Cinema's
responsible for that because he thought
that movie needed a punch mmm
someone needed to pull a blow-up doll
through a tiny window yeah yeah which
I'm okay with that scene being in there
just because it's so hilarious but yeah
at that point Robert Shaye thought the
movie needed a punchy ending and
potential sequels Bates which I don't
think even really led into the sequel
right no well the second one is sort of
the black sheep of this series yeah tell
us about the second one oh the second
one is one of the most unintentionally
hilarious horror movies ever made I
think at this point everyone knows about
the unintentional gay not even
undertones it's just the movies very
very gay which call it overtones I would
call it it was supposed to be subtext
but it is just text where the main
character the only male scream queen
which he calls himself so I feel okay
saying that because he was an openly gay
actor I guess at the time no was to miss
the lead was now it was just a like a
Wes Craven thing because he was pretty
had nothing to do with the second one oh
okay not even like producer or story he
came back for the third one and did a
draft of the script but no he had
nothing to do with the second one Wes
Craven was gay too right no he was not
he was not gay are you sure he in
Hollywood wasn't gay no I thought it was
no he's not gay okay my bad
deena anyway here are some ones throwing
rocks at the window that are breaking
the window and she decides to go outside
see this has gone back to what you were
saying earlier rich about the the dream
stuff not being too elaborate in this I
like that's I love the sequel's for how
goofy and weird they get but I do like
that in this movie it's very it's hard
to tell where the dream stops you know
I'm not saying it's bad it's just
shocking when you're familiar with what
the series has become oh sure it's very
simple in comparison to some of the
fantasy elements of the later ones oh my
god we're 14 minutes in and we haven't
talked about the remake yet remember
this scene in the remake I don't
remember anything well that's the
simplest effect in the world right there
it's just someone pushing on spandex and
they're lit from underneath but in the
remake it's like this giant CGI mess and
it looks horrible of course it does
simple and effective yeah because you
can do something in the computers
doesn't mean you should it was there a
cut there because she'd knocks on the
wall yeah but that's yeah even that
little bit there just have her knock on
the wall to really sell it magic movie
magic yeah yeah Tom Savini talks about
that if he's gonna do would do an
effects like in a Friday the 13th movie
with machete or something you want to
see it
cut something for real before he has it
cut into a person mm-hmm so when you
switch over to the fake machete you
don't even think about it because you've
already seen the real one do its work
that's true that's true
what's your problem with the dreamworld
stuff with this rich it's fine I didn't
say it was a problem I just it's odd in
hindsight yeah what this series is known
for and how Freddy is known as is more
informed by the sales I guess people
thought the boiler-room stuff was the
most effective so every dreamworld stuff
is boiler room mess and the later ones
right oh no Freddy goes to beach oh yeah
remember the girl gets trapped in like
the giant Roach Motels yeah I really
like the showdowns and stuff were always
the boy the boiler room was a big
element of it and I want to point out
he's also wearing a hobo hat and what's
up with his arms that's it's not the
best effects what remember talking about
practical effects but actually part part
of me was always always wondering
because clearly the arms look weird or
fatter and I was always wondering if
they were meant to like extend even for
I think that's the idea and then that
they'd when they did it it either didn't
work or are they just cut it short or
cut it short yeah just cut out because
it seems like there's extra material on
the cloth and the shirt yeah to make it
to continue to except right like the
script was his arms stretched for 30
feet down the alley yeah yeah so how do
I do this I don't know giant slinkys in
his arms this is a great moment cuz this
is when you realize that the guy that's
stalking you is a complete madman yeah
he doesn't care about his own body
what's he gonna do to yours that Freddy
he's got personality even in this movie
even though he's not overly jokey
he still has a McCobb sense of humor not
not the best practical effects so far
what what the face ripping yeah yeah
yeah oh shit it's a little comical but I
think but this is great this stuff is
great yeah this is the most effective
scene in the whole it's unfortunate this
is that yeah the first big kill scene in
the movie and the rest of the movie is
not quite as strong as this it's a good
hook though oh sure
this is
the psycho shower zine and also done
simply just a rotating room mm-hmm a lot
of hairspray on the guy cuz he's he's
probably white hanging upside down yeah
he's probably strapped into a chair or
something clearly it set though it looks
like mr. blankets house come on it
doesn't look that good suppose the cops
are wondering how the bloody footprints
got on the ceiling yeah I think the
biggest confusing crime scene was
probably Johnny Depp's blood in him then
human has here we have John Saxon booth
John Saxon was in the best of the worst
movie we watched was he in hands of
Steel he said the armwrestling movie he
was a vet I think so yeah was it he in
the the one with the robot was that
hands of Steel yeah at the end where he
has the hisses ient laser gun yes and
he's shooting it round glorious career
glorious but he's always the best part
of any shitty movie he's in he's alright
I mean he's just like a guy I'm not
gonna give him more credit than he
deserves
he's solid he's a solid actor this is
the scene where Heather Langenkamp hair
keeps getting bigger it's all a dream
it's all a dream where her hair is
entirely different from the last scene
in the movie she went to the hairstylist
before yeah she's like Rosie and weird
and then now it's like I don't know they
must have filmed this like like a months
after the fact after they might have
take up shoes yeah
possibly possibly
well there's your favorite actress you
know something I don't think I picked up
on when I was little is that the parents
are separated yeah I don't think I ever
caught on to that cuz the mothers are
horrible welcome she's yeah well or is
she an alcoholic because of the
separation I don't know I don't know but
I don't know what the reasoning is but
there's a logical reason for them to
have been separated
a reason in the story is what I'm Oh
here's a giant zit on her forehead this
is just mentioned that thanks blu-ray we
should say yeah we're watching a blu-ray
copy of this and the the blu-ray case
the packaging for The Nightmare on Elm
Street collection on blu-ray is just the
best Photoshop work look it up if you're
watching a video right now it would pop
up on screen but you're just listening
to us
that's her hair that's different it's
just pulled back rich I guess the mother
has a job yes there's that bottle of
booze that bottle of booze isn't any
scene that the mom is in it's hanging
out there that's just good
characterization and we did we saw at
the beginning of the scene the exterior
of the house the 1428 Elm Street house
which is like two blocks away from the
houses from the end of the original
Halloween right off of salsa Boulevard
yep this true sense of over Genesee I
think is the name of the street and I'm
sure someone lives there so don't go up
to the door from what I understand
they're very nice about people not going
up to the door but like taking photos in
front of the house and lingering around
and stuff so they even the current owner
actually repainted the house so it
looked more like it does and mystery
movies because the previous owner
changed it up or something oh so it has
the red door which is weird because
everyone thinks of that house is having
the red door but it's actually blue in
this movie no you know what are the
sequels or maybe it was Freddy vs. Jason
wasn't the house like a rundown piece of
shit it isn't a lot of that's it's it's
very confusing in the sequels because at
some point it becomes Freddy's house you
know it never was and this so yeah and
they show it run down in the third movie
in the dream worlds and then in the
fourth movie it's run down in real life
somehow
so okay not that the strongest
continuity in these movies not at all
definitely not with Freddy's makeup he
looks drastically different in almost
every movie he's a ghost he's that's
true he could make himself look
different although I don't know why a
new night
myriad wanted want to make himself look
like a Halloween mask I like that movie
but that's the worst Freddie makeup is
it worse than the remake where he looks
like a lion oh yeah well that doesn't
count
it looks like a lion yeah some sort of
cat the way the nose yeah yeah huh I
don't know it's strange but they can use
CG to put a hole in his cheek they did
yeah sorry oh that's an appropriate use
of technology and Jackie Earle Haley is
like three feet tall he's not the person
you cast is intimidating Freddy no
height was a noise Freddy's intimidation
knows a Jason thing sure but he's
comically short you were almost his body
double were you know not Freddy's I um
Kyle Gallner is the actor's name in the
remake I was almost his stand-in for
that movie well I was technically for a
date how doesn't you want to like how
did that work how did that work out I
heard they were casting extras and this
I didn't have a lot going on at the time
so I was like hey I'll go be on the side
of a nightmare in Elm Street movie it's
a shitty remake but it's still a
Nightmare on Elm Street movie and The
Nightmare on Elm Street series has
always meant a lot to me so it's like oh
I'd get paid to hang out on the set and
stand in for the actors when they're
setting up lights and stuff so I went
down there for a day or they were doing
like reference photos of the actor and
their stand-in I just hung out on the
set and I realized that one day was more
than enough for me so I didn't go back I
had the job I didn't and I tell them
nope cuz it was like three weeks of
night shoots and and everyone that's
there was like an aspiring actor like
all the stand ins they wanted to be
actors and I was just there for the hell
of it because it's a nightmare at Elm
Street movie I had no good reason to be
there other than just to fuck around but
you got to meet Jackie Earle Haley I got
to meet Jackie Earle Haley I got to see
him put on the sweater for the first
time which was kind of neat
and then I chatted with him for a bit I
guess I can say these things
that doesn't matter but uh we are to me
and him and some other crew guy were
hanging her on talking about the
original movie and Jackie Rolla Haley's
like yeah I and seen it since you know
it was first in theaters so I watched it
in my hotel the other night and it was
just the worst movie I've ever seen like
up here's our new Freddy and in the back
of my back of my head I was thinking
when he's doing publicity for this movie
he's gonna talk about how much the first
one meant to him how iconic it is and of
course that's exactly what happened so
moral the story in case anyone didn't
know Hollywood is full of shit did you
know that it's a town of lies you you
can't believe what professional actors
are saying during interview I'm shocked
some of them go off script and during
interviews and stuff
oh sure you know but for the most part
yeah they don't they they're under
contract to promote the film
anyway we missed the we we passed by the
body bag body bag seems the creepiest
images in the movie yeah that and I felt
that Tina character everything around
Tina's plugging up on the ceiling and
that's a horrific scene and the body bag
stuff and also in that classroom scene
the teacher was Lin shade yes you became
well-known horror icon herself a few
decades later more insidious and her
terrifying role and there's something
about married oh yes all the Farrelly
Brothers movies but back when this movie
was made she was just the producer's
sister pays to be the producers sister
Tina's dead now she's dreaming rich you
don't know that's why she's in a boiler
room well this is at this point you
don't know what the boiler room is it
could just be under the school actually
I don't think they really say in this
what the boiler room is that comes into
play in the sequels yeah the second
movie is where they say he was a janitor
do they really acknowledge that he was a
school janitor uh not a school janitor
he worked at that boiler room it wasn't
at the school though oh where was it is
somewhere else
in the town is the boiler factory it was
some sort of factory here's where you
discover Freddie's full of worms yeah
well this is supposed to be the boiler
room under the school yeah exactly at
this point you just think it's the in
the school I can't get over how janky
that hat looks I just it's great it's so
dirty
Freddie Freddie got a cleaner look as
the series went along but here he's just
a dirty man that's the kind of hat I
would expect a hobo clown to wear I
think it's fine I love how dirty and
gross he is in this III don't like when
his sweater is like brand-new and clean
and yeah yeah that she should look nasty
and dirty and have a hobo hat we haven't
even mentioned Robert Englund yet this
is like the perfect casting mm-hmm like
I can't imagine if they had ended up
going with anyone else in this role like
when you look at not necessarily this
movie but with the sequels like how much
his performance began to inform them
just this the relish he took in that
role mm-hmm a New Line Cinema didn't
even realize what they had after this
movie because they started shooting the
second one with a different actor not
even an actor or a stunt person because
they didn't want to pay Robert Englund
really yeah there's a couple shots of
that movie where it's just some like
stunt man that they cast cuz they didn't
think they needed Robert Englund they
didn't think he was the the draw of the
series yet oh my god
so they started shooting that movie
without him and after a couple days
realized that they needed him that's so
weird
yeah well that's that mean that whole
second movie everything is wrong cuz I
don't think they really understood what
the series was yet I can tell you can
tell I'm not a horror fan because to me
he's Robert Englund is that guy from V
yeah that was an interview shortly
before this yeah and now he's that guy
from Nightmare on Elm Street and he
always will be and that's not
necessarily a bad thing
yeah when I saw this I was like oh
that's that guy was an alien Oh even
Beckham is not scary III didn't know him
from anything but this movie until years
later he has a very bizarre cameo in the
film Jud - bud the chud where he's
walking the dog
and it's like this massive wide shot and
you can barely even tell it's him it's
like why would you cast him in a cameo
where you can't even see who it is hmm a
better question is why would you make
Judd - bud the chud that's what's called
bud the chud bud the chud he even has
his own theme song huh he's also not a
chud so it's like troll - kind of yeah
there's no Judds and Judd - they're just
basically zombies cannibal zombies huh
cannibalistic humanoid underground
dwellers yeah well then they eat each
other or not humans and you have nothing
to fear this seems like it's not a front
this is a problem that will literally
solve itself yeah just let them eat each
other
this guy thinks he's in Christine he
thinks he's in Greece
yeah Christine has a greaser character
too even though it's not a period movie
but he is possessed by like a greaser
Erik car
Oh your talk about the main guy third
time but there's a bully in that movie
that looks like a 50s greaser
okay maybe after we watch it I know I
know at the end of the movie the the guy
who gets possessed yeah Agustin ends up
looking like a Greek yeah well that
makes sense cuz it's a car from that era
yes slowly turning into you know more of
that era greasers are racers in the 80s
we're the hipsters of today maybe
there's a lot of eighties movies or
greasers in them I was thinking about
the blob
yeah what's his name that Kevin Dillon
the other Dillon I don't know but he's a
greaser in the blob I'm assuming people
that wrote movies in the 80s grew up in
the 50s so like he's a bad boy there's a
greaser and one of the Friday the 13th
sequels I think the fifth one and he
gets a road flare shoved down his throat
no my goodness oh yeah what's with all
the greasers and 80s movies I think they
didn't know what what the rebellious
teen of the 80s was the screenwriter who
was probably in his 30s or 40s oh oh
sure really they would have been a punk
rocker so here here is Heather
Langenkamp in the bathtub and she
thought it would be a good idea to sit
in a bathtub when she's trying to stay
awake a nice warm nice warm relaxing
little bath you and that's a really a
terrible place to fall asleep here we
have a guest cameo by Kenny Baker the
only person that would fit in the
bathtub you got a job for me I can do it
I'll put my face in between this lady's
legs but all glove alright I could do
you know they won't lift me inside the
r2d2 nearly suffocated those
motherfuckers
you know that happened right they'd left
him inside the guy forgot he was in
there and they all went to lunch they
like nearly cooked to death inside the
little car - D - that's horrible
yeah this before the midget Rights Act
of 1981 yeah anyway this guy this is
cool imagery with the big water yeah
this is scary like just this tiny hole
and you're trapped underwater no I would
put this on the the pros side of the
list for for effective horror imagery
there's a couple of stinker moments in
this movie that are laughable and and
the the the premise is great the idea is
great the execution is a little flawed
yes and there's a lot of filler lots of
lots of great moments though well that's
a great moment so it's a movie with a
lot of great moments and great ideas but
the plotting and some of the
interpersonal stuff and just like you
know the Freddy stuff it's like they
constantly talk about Freddy there's a
guy in our dreams it's like the plot
doesn't go anywhere
picked up more on this most recent time
watching it is yeah there's numerous we
saw one earlier when she was in jail
like numerous scenes where a friend says
I saw him in my dream he had knives four
fingers we're getting the same
information yeah you too many times yeah
it's like are they talking about Freddy
you got a full time well you do have to
keep in mind that at this point turnout
on a printer I think regular paper I
think it was colored in with markers
they Scotch taped it unto a bottle yeah
so here Nancy's watching the evil dead
there's my name's Bruce Campbell that
was a little running joke going on into
that time and their filmmaking careers
between Sam Raimi and Wes Craven I think
it started with The Hills Have Eyes and
The Hills Have Eyes there's a trailer
gets attacked
and there's a Jaa's poster on the wall
that's ripped in half which is supposed
to say like that's popcorn or you know
this is real whore mm-hmm and so in the
Evil Dead Sam Raimi put a Hills Have
Eyes poster ripped on the wall and so
this movie Wes Craven put Evil Dead on
the TV and I think there's a Freddy
glove somewhere and Evil Dead - that's
amazing
aren't you glad you know this now this
is the type of information that's filled
my brain next time I watch Evil Dead 2
I'm gonna be too busy enjoying the film
to notice that I did notice The Hills
Have Eyes poster the first time I saw
the Evil Dead and I didn't know why it
was there I found out about the little
inside joke stuff later oh my god that's
it later on in the scene where she goes
to the dream the dream analysis they put
one of the electrodes over his it it's
it's it's true and they also put one on
her chin for some reason yeah
they don't listen add AI means it's
don't last that long they do for
teenagers maybe she had is it one day on
the shoot and for continuity sake they
put a fake zit on for the rest of the
film that's that's a good one
that's a good bump you know every day
she came in and Wes Craven just hit her
in the head for kinda do what he says
different once know it was worse than
the in the police station scene so they
must have shot that a little bit before
but I mean that like yeah if it's if
it's rolled up and they they got a shoot
schedule to keep and movies he do what
you gotta do what the fuck you know look
at Johnny Depp just out acting her in
this scene just acting circles around
Heather leg again
he's so natural and believable in those
mmm-hmm should have cast Jake Lloyd rich
Jake Lloyd was not born yet
I should have cast him in the remake why
not it would have mattered
now you gotta feel bad for Jake Lloyd
now he has like mental problems Oh does
he
yeah I mean I know he hates Star Wars no
I mean don't you remember what happened
what are you like oh you want nuts
that's right
was that a drunken rampage though no no
they they say he is like psychological
problems I forgot Star Wars I don't know
what I don't I think we can directly
attribute it to George Lucas yes I mean
I'm sure that I don't know I can't
speculate how many lives well George
Lucas ruined so many so many what scene
is this Jay another dream sequence we
get it Freddy's killing people just go
to the ending
how could she trusted her dream him is
actually watching though I mean this is
a silly exchange but dream Johnny Depp
is checking up on dream what's-her-face
mm-hmm
what's wrong with that she could have
been dreaming that I know it's almost
she is dreaming this but that's all the
thing is it's all it's all a little
surreal yeah I like that how he pops out
from behind the tree yeah just like you
didn't even know he's back there yeah
pops out that would happen in a dream
and this is all fine it's I'm just
making like ask you
when's Freddy guys say funny things
didn't say funny things oh she looks in
the police station that's right when is
Freddy gonna say bitch goodbye
oh really that's Mike's favorite line
from any of these movies yeah my
favorite one of the series is really the
fourth one the third one in the fourth
one or when I think when people think of
this series of movies those are the two
they think of the most yeah
the fourth one is a really great movie
considering it has no story the movie
has no plot whatsoever
it's a story no plot it's just things
happening it reminds me a lot of the
fourth Halloween where it's almost like
resetting the series mmm because like
Halloween 2 happened and you know that
was just like an extension of one and
then yeah 3 was the season of the witch
and and that's like 4 it's like ok we're
resetting everything yeah and then with
this one the fourth one really felt like
cuz there's Alice and she's sort of like
the new heroine and then he kills off
the old old kids leftover kids from look
yeah and then it's just sort of like a
new starting new yeah how many kids are
there that he has to kill anyway how
many parents teamed up to kill this man
well he kills the last of him in the 3rd
or the beginning of the fourth movie and
then he just keeps killing people for
some reason oh is that it is that the
deal yeah he just wants more he goes
bringing me more he just decides he
wants to continue killing I guess yeah
yeah well I think the mother in this
says that there were 20 murdered
children something like that yeah so
that would mean well I guess you don't
know well it's revenge against the
parents who murdered him right that's
the story yeah yes so the question is
how many parents were involved with
murdering Freddie but every every
character in this would have a murdered
sibling and they never mentioned that
that that's something that was in a bit
of deleted footage they say something
that all the kids in this movie that are
being killed off they had older siblings
that Freddie killed okay oh really yeah
now that's deleted that's not in the
movie but
I always made the assumption that it was
like the parents being proactive like
the parents with surviving children
that's kind of the way it ends up
looking in the final movie because they
cut out that little bit of dialogue now
that would've been interesting oh that's
that's something from my conversation
with Jackie Earle Haley - he said that
was the worst movie ever or whatever
like I always liked that movie and the
thing I liked the most about it is that
it's what's scary is that it's these
kids haven't done anything wrong they're
paying for the sins of their parents
that act like that's a creepy idea and
he's like I had none of that's in this
movie that remake sucks so bad what are
they changing the remake then I haven't
seen it well they they overtly make
Freddy a pedophile for one which is like
it makes you uncomfortable yeah in a way
that you want just kind of assume that
don't mind trip for Freddy's child porn
stashes
yes the end of the movie is Nancy and
other guy going to Freddy's lair and
finding like a stack of like naked
children photos like it's really creepy
and now I'm like I know are we supposed
to be creepy but when you're watching
like a fantasy Freddy movie like that's
not what you're looking for is that the
kind of creepy you want to know for
exactly
well not that kind of horror movie yeah
it worked and I wanted to say super 8
what's that's well that's you know
wearing different films yeah films but
there's this whole mystery aspect in the
remake or it's like Freddy's coming back
for revenge against these all the kids
because they outed him as being a child
molester and that's why the parents went
after him and killed him but there's
like half of the movie it's supposed to
be like did he really molest them or is
he killing them because they made false
accusations it's like the worst shit oh
and then it's revealed that he was just
a child molester
it's like ow but did the parents gang up
and burn him alive or yeah that's the
same that's the same one they did that
because of the accusations from the kids
that he was molesting them
did this a great great fun horror movie
story yeah no really
here they mean 8 was more overt in Wes
Craven's original script for this movie
that he was a child molester but they
toned it down and I think it works
better they just come with a filthy
child murderer doesn't really make that
assumption yeah you said you can assume
but you don't need to be so overt about
it not the most creative kill in the
movie
I started strong and then they got
weaker yeah well this is especially
confusing because he's doing it in a way
that'll make it look like he killed
himself
yeah but why would Freddy care we really
gonna do to him he's a dream monster oh
that's true
why does he need to make it look like a
suicide cuz then then there were though
the police will stop investigating those
I think you got your killer he killed
himself we're done
I guess Freddy like like turned him into
soup like we good job Doug then the
police would and it happened inside his
jail cell they would be really concerned
and what would the police do
well that's the thing is they they still
couldn't do anything yeah don't go to
sleep
no John Saxon would enter the dream
world with his gun just her shoes very
suited Freddy's terrified of the police
rich that was a deleted scene his only
weakness is the police yeah he got
pulled over when he was a child murderer
and he like peed in his pants and you
know it didn't have proper license and
registration
just don't involve the cops you defeat
Freddy by chanting 911
whoa so if only this jail cell didn't
have bars in the ceiling he would be
alive today
you choked to death awfully quick
I think it has his neck broke yeah they
make like a snapping sound with although
your neck only breaks with the drop yeah
but you know it's dream magic no one
said this movie wasn't flawed rich if
Freddie can turn into a giant snake
monster he can snap a kid's neck sure a
lot of cemetery scenes in these movies
let's say you never see another slasher
movies
no one's ever mourning the death of
anyone everyone just dies off and then
they're out of the movie she can't kill
everybody in one night in these movies
that's true there's gotta be some time
in-between and people have to deal with
these people who are dying although
really I couldn't Freddie kill everyone
in one night before anyone even knows
who he is
well I won't sleep in one night just
kill him all the priest is a big dick in
the scene he said those who live by the
sword will die by the sword and he's
like let's not judge he who has not been
judged is basically saying he did it
person being hypocritical and judgmental
why I never heard she was a Catholic
okay so what you're saying is the priest
was the pedophile oh no which that was
Freddie from the sequel oh no it's
Freddie yeah there's like that zoom in
it was like a soap opera shot I cut to a
commercial they pulled it right out of
the lifetime with put her another four
movie yeah that mom sucks she sucks
although she doesn't get the best laugh
line in the whole movie when she says
he's dead honey cause mommy killed him
huh
oh look at that sign did they just put
that there for the movie or is that the
real sign what do you think rich know
what there's it it's not covered up yet
no they have they finished putting them
on Jay don't put it right over top of it
put it right there please
they should have started with that one
and then put the other one on now yeah
draw less attention to the fact then
some assholes wouldn't be talking about
it on a commentary thirty years later
and I don't know what that electrode is
doing that arch in the chin one is
confusing
this is secret it's not a sleep clinic
it's like an acne treatment clinic
they're just gonna treat is it I mean
find out why you've been having
nightmares to find out what your zit
dreams of at night the electrode can't
penetrate it see now if this is one of
the sequels they would build up the fact
that she's very insecure about her acne
and then Freddie in a dream would turn
her into a giant zit lumber yes yes
that's true that's that's where the
series went this is really strange to me
how the mothers sitting in there with
the doctor like she's like a scientist
as well small game like I like that they
have this scene though I mean this is
all filler the whole movies filler
this isn't filler this is establishing
that if you pull something out of your
dream or if you hold on to something on
your dream it gets pulled out to the
real did she bring something out in the
scene yeah this is where she pulls out
the hat is it yep no she doesn't her bed
no no all right
oh is that why Freddie doesn't have a
hat later mm-hmm because she pulled it
out although they they have his real
glove in real life but he made a fake
one in his dream well he can do that so
why didn't he just get another hat so
there's two gloves then there's the real
glove this is the real world live and
then there's the glove it gets pulled
out of the dream yes can we talk about
the distracting
picture of a human-sized cat Friday
night trolley car like I was just a real
sleep clinic and then you know the guy
would let him shoot there only if he
could keep his poster up don't take my
poster down my cat wearing a Hawaiian
shirt he keeps looking off camera it
looks like he's looking up at the cat
picture he's too distracted he's yeah
they both keep looking up at it and this
guy's a little daytime TV too they all
the actors in this side yes he is Roger
Rabbit right I'm not wrong about that
yeah Charles Fletcher who is not in a
lot of stuff but he's a good actor or
maybe not in this but he's in one scene
of Zodiac David Fincher's zodiac then
he's great in it yeah he looks too much
like Steve Guttenberg
they had to take him out of projects
he's the poor man Steve Guttenberg which
is really saying something
no oh yeah there's to him
yeah grab onto something in your dream
and wake up it comes out into the real
world establishing mythology and rules
that the sequel would completely ignore
and fuck up it's fine the second one
specifically the second one ya know that
the rest of the series not great on
continuity but it pretty much follows
the rules established in this and then
the third one how does Freddie get back
in the dream world leave well that's the
thing that's where this movie kind of
falls jumped on the mother's sleeping
body and turns when she turn into a
skeleton and then the bed turned into a
vortex to another dimension yes there
was the dimension back to the dream
world I couldn't tell ya there's that
bottle I always interpreted that uh
Nina's just everything was a dream yeah
but it's yeah it doesn't make a whole
lot of sense when you get to the third
movie and Nancy's back but what can you
do
so the mom becomes more of a lush
throughout the course of the film
because of her daughter sleeping
problems just put together in the
beginning like going on so he's a mess
and then she just becomes like a
horrible alcoholic yeah she's worried
her daughter's going crazy
I think maybe at the funeral she
realized that that because the daughter
described Freddie's yeah here she has
she's hiding the Hat
that somehow Nancy knows is right behind
her well I guess she's been pretty
obvious about it nothing in this drawer
behind me like oh there's a little gray
streak in her hair could you say that
Nancy has gone rogue
I did that joke I did when we had our
screening I did that joke and then
everyone was laughing and there was
applause well now we've heard the joke
yeah I know but people are listening to
this have not heard the joke so they
might be standing up and applauding they
would also be stood silent too
I can't fake my laughter Mike and I
already heard the joke I know I know you
can the only the only place I could I
could take it further was with the I
suddenly got drafty in here there's a
little picture of an orange on the wall
I think I'm distracted by the
backgrounds and the yeah I don't know
who the the set designer was for this
movie but it's a spooky orange set
designed by Goodwill yeah yeah yeah I
was wondering about that that cabinet
back there is an antique looks pretty
nice oh yeah the movies on now she does
have a bottle later in the movie and I'm
going to assume it's the same bottle and
she glued it back together right she's
got so many bottles he does have them
stashed all over the house the other
night later she hides them in the lawn
and the towels yeah wait can we talk and
if you're right and if you're going to
hide them why would you hide them in the
closet where people go to get towels
over the morning okay can we talk about
the bridge fast food scene which is now
happening saying that it makes there's
no logical reason in the scene for
Johnny Depp to be eating fast food other
than probably Johnny Depp just needed to
eat and they needed to film its business
that's if he wasn't doing that he would
just be standing there I'm fine with
that
I'm not so he's eating on the edge of
this bridge and I keep thinking his food
bags gonna fall off I gotta eat this
burger it's just so incredibly strange
it's so nice though that you're worried
about
these kids lives are in danger from a
boogeyman and you're concerned about his
hamburger that's the real tension well I
mean everyone's gotta eat you know even
Glenn but like I just pictured Johnny
Depp's just like I'm hungry
all right fine eat the burger and like
there's no point to it it has no point
Glenn hasn't been established as a guy
would be okay with it if they weren't on
a bridge is it just the fact that
they're easy eating this awkward place
if they were like in a cafe like they
decided to go somewhere and talk about
Freddy it's it's the awkward place it's
the subject matter and it's just the
fact that he's just bringing fast food
along with him on this nice walk and
then she just leaves him there
I don't think Glenn has ever believed
there's a dream killer
well he's I think he's skeptical so that
that makes sense that he'd be casual
eating food yeah the dream guy uh-huh
wait I want to watch this part right
here because from what I recall the
there's bars we've established that
there's bars on the house right yes what
is that all about by the way I don't
know what that yeah that's the what one
would use decline up to the window oh
they took it down they've taken ability
away okay watch here we go
the whole bar a house is barred up at
the front doors online that's all the
point I wanted to make okay the point I
want to make is why does she bother what
does it mean what is the significance of
her barring up the house well she's
trying to keep the daughter in so you
could say it's unlocked because now that
Nancy's in the house now she'll lock it
the daughter's problem is she doesn't
sleep not that she keeps leaving the
house sure what's motivating the bars
well yeah she doesn't sneak out
Glenn sneaks in maybe it's the key with
Glenn oh no keep yeah Glenn it's fast
food yeah but the whole the whole thing
at the end of the movie is that Nancy is
locked in the house like she can't
unlock that door from inside they see it
feels like it's to keep her in it is
yeah doesn't make any sense
the mothers being overprotective she's
just trying to be protective I think is
the idea also why do they have
he goes in nobody goes out and then
you're safe why do they have an
industrial-sized crematorium in their
basement rich got nothing I mean is that
where they burned up Freddie or what why
is it in a giant furnace I guess the
house is really old it's parallels they
burned him and then his stuff is not
what at first this is the scene where
originally it revealed that all the kids
being killed had older siblings oh but
that was trimmed out just cut out so I
guess that would have been what rich I
guess that would have originally been
the reason for the divorce probably - oh
maybe marriages don't always survive
shit like that sure sure kids died we
burned somebody alive it's gonna strain
the relationship yeah I think that would
make a relationship stronger because
they did it together what together burnt
alive via murder the child murderer it's
the first thing they told you to do in
therapy burn the child murderer yeah you
need to share an activity together
there's that bottle yeah that's the same
bottle she should have like used the
glove and stabbed Freddie with the other
glove instead of just said he knows that
should have been the thing like she's
cornered in the base but oh the glove is
in here oh god the the home alone booby
traps are you okay with it in theory but
the execution of it it feels like you're
watching home alone
I mean Freddie could be confused for a
second like why are there two gloves
bitch
so the costume department couldn't
afford a whole shirt for Johnny Depp
here tear those the fashionable stylings
of the time I don't think that was ever
a fashionable styling for like hot women
yeah that's he looks like the woman from
weird science Kelly LeBrock she wears a
cut-off shirt and weird science weird
science see I was gonna say Kelly
LeBrock
but then I thought you know Mike is
gonna tease me like how do you fucked
you know Kelly LeBrock oohs why would I
tease you're black excuse me about
everything I say that's not true rich
rich that's bully shaming you can't do
that to me I have my rights when I
teased you about knowing I have no idea
but you find ways yeah I guess how old
are you know something maybe something
was gonna come I knew that Richard you
say you're paranoid about this I'm
paranoid about this now yes okay look
everyone needs as everyone needs their
laughter and entertainment that's why
you're here for rich some people can
spill beer on me are these two
characters still talking on the phone
are they talking about Freddie yes
there's a guy who gets them in their
sleep did you know he has no use for
fingers now what is she asking him to do
Oh something wait wait for like when he
uh
come over and wake her up yeah when she
breaks up with her house that's locked
up with all of the bars and the logs and
the dead bolts yeah this a great plan
well I don't think she knows at this
point that she's locked in she doesn't
actually so she probably thinks she can
just get Freddie out into the real world
and get him to chase her outside where
Johnny Depp will be waiting yeah
but they're door locks from the inside
but she doesn't know that yeah yeah I
guess not so here's the famous coffeepot
scene mm-hmm
this is a laughs moment when we watch
this the other day yeah
I guess it's coming up in a little bit
but that's actually based on the
inspiration for the entire concept of
the movie Wes Craven had read an article
about some kid that was terrified to go
to sleep mm-hm and his family didn't
know why he wouldn't talk about it and
then he finally fell asleep and he died
in his sleep and it was completely
unexplained but they found a coffee pot
in his in his closet
like he was storing coffee in there to
try and stay awake well now I feel bad
for laughing but it is funny when she
pulls out the entire coffee maker yeah
and it's like on and it's just under her
bed good night Glen I do like the this
is not typical of other slasher movies
that Johnny Depp's character at no point
is ever concerned for his safety
like at no point does he think any of
this threat is real and I like that all
the way to the very end yeah he doesn't
really have any kind of purpose in this
movie he's not a direct love interest of
Heather Langenkamp
he kind of is sort of thing it's not
much of a romance no yeah I think like
she's like I'm not interested in having
sex right now because my friend Tina is
upset you know and then after that it's
just like Anna whatever and there's no
attempt of anything after that his his
purpose is to turn into a blood volcano
yeah he's very like nonchalant
throughout the whole film just like okay
I'll help you with this I guess okay
here's the famous coffee pods this is
sure it comes oh it's under there she
anticipated that her mom would steal her
car it's actually not a bad plan you
have enough caffeine you have to pee
wait wait her plan at this point is to
fall asleep to catch Freddie that's true
yes but she has to stay awake long
enough for her mom to fall asleep so she
can set up booby traps what that's
what's happening rich
she hasn't slept in days sir she's on
the verge of falling asleep at any time
but she can't fall asleep before before
her mom does what this guy's great isn't
she worries dad character yeah yes isn't
she worried that Johnny Depp's gonna run
into all of her booby traps on the way
up to get her know she's gonna drag him
out she's gonna get Freddy to chase her
outside you could argue that she's so
sleep-deprived that but her brain is not
making logic okay which would be
interesting I don't think they ever
really do that in any of these movies
where the sleep deprivation actually
gets to the characters yeah it makes him
go a little crazy they never really do
that see she can't lead Freddy outside
until Johnny Depp wakes her up so at
some point Johnny Depp has to dodge all
of the exploding light bulbs and the
swinging sledgehammers to get to her
know not to wake her up
oh no she's not supposed to wake her up
he's just supposed to be there when she
does wake up how does she plan on waking
up she's got an alarm on the alarm okay
she has an alarm
okay that's all things only that she's
gonna have to Pete yeah here's the bombs
brilliant hiding spot for the same
bottle of booze I think they just use
that same prop for this whole it's look
at this like this this dramatic acting I
wanted her to peek out one more time and
when she does there's just like a little
bar and like a bartender out there in
the hollow I have another just smoking
like like like straight up sucker
brothers yeah here's angry dad here's
angry asshole dad he's the best
character in the movie you're I tell
these kids away it is detected Glenda
yeah this guy this guy's great she says
she doesn't want to become a blood that
crazy can't wait for my son you gotta be
firm with these kids
oh you just sealed your kid's fate you
did didn't even realize it mm-hmm that's
a little the whole added layer element
and this is like the the helplessness of
the teenagers they're at the know of
their parents that's yeah that's that's
why I like the little details like
there's not necessarily a reason for her
parents to be separated but it's just I
think what's crave it's good at
establishing the the isolation kids can
feel mm-hmm from their parents yep their
only way to communicate is with that
phone just when she realizes she's
dreaming
I'm so glad they ripped off so many
things from this movie in the remake
like the shot of the hand coming out of
the bathtub and mmm I'm so glad they
didn't try and update this with like a
cell phone oh they didn't do the tongue
coming out of the phone now she rips the
cell phone out of the wall and throws it
down at rings and she's not surprised at
all oh my phone is ringing maybe I guess
you'd have to like rip the battery out
yeah specifically about what happens
here yeah oh yeah but the cell phone
beats so small be like a little tiny
tongue yeah you could see the glue it's
fine it's fine it's fine
no overacting 101
yeah that's about the weirdest moment in
this movie and it's so tame when you
think of like the shit that happens in
the sequels
we just have a ton come out of the phone
like that yeah mom she never dreams
she's somewhere fantastical no well
that's that's I mean I think he was
going for that where you weren't sure
when you were in the dream and downwards
and by the sequels you know you know
what's happening so they could go a
little crazier with it I remember the
fourth one being a little more tame
for the roach motel part motel there's
the beach yeah right there's the
asthmatic girl in the school classroom
yeah that's just a classroom a couple of
the earlier ones like the girl the wait
the the before it becomes a Roach Motels
she's just lifting weights yeah and she
kind of doses offs yeah that's her
character thing oh wait here's Johnny
Depp yeah there's a little cut before
they you see a hard cut heavy stereo
I've always noticed that this is great
yeah and there's even a bed sequence in
the fourth one oh yeah the guy that's a
obsessive like porno or whatever
remember there's like a naked lady yeah
well he has a poster on his wall yeah
like a bikini girl and she shows up in
the water but he looks up at the poster
and she's not honored more the mom comes
in and he's like in the bed like drowned
oh my god yeah that's what I always
liked about this series more than the
other the other horror series of the
time was that it really embraced like
the fantasy elements and Freddy had a
personality I think I think there was
just seem as improperly directed like if
I if I was the mother and I came in and
saw that I wouldn't just assume my child
had been liquefied there'd be like
there's a problem with the plumbing and
that you'd be like looking around
confused like what is all this stuff and
like how did this happen yeah not oh my
god instantaneous my child was murdered
by a dream monster yeah you're saying
there should be a like a 30-minute
sequence in the movie where she's
confused
what's going on with Ryan Glenn's room
if sink Lynn yeah come up and take a
look at this let me go walk back up the
stairs they need to investigate it the
movie needs to come to a dead stop for
about 20 minutes while they investigate
this and try to find where Glenn is and
figure out what the fuck is wrong with
the plumbing and then come to the
realization that Glenn was sucked into
his bed and liquefied by a dream monster
not the usual conclusion you come to
within one second of opening the door
yeah yes that is my favorite aspect of
the Chucky movies though is that
everyone dies looking horribly confused
that a fucking doll what why wouldn't
the dad just go over and and humor the
daughter who's boyfriend just died in a
blood volcano he's on the job right now
he's in the middle of work is that it's
a cross rich even when she's breaking
the windows and screaming bloody murder
no one even looks no one believes her
no one hmm maybe she's not trying to
tell the dad that it's a dream monster
she's just like I know killed him
come over here yeah I guess that's smart
I'm gonna pull him out of my dream or
whatever she doesn't try to explain this
shit I'm distracted by the fruit magnets
I'm distracted by the little grocery
list I'm trying to read what it says who
did the production design for this film
goodwill we already made that joke I
know oh okay wait here's here's her home
alone sequence she's quick she's very
quick oh yeah I guess the scene on the
bridge where Johnny Depp was eating fast
food she was reading the how to make
homemade explosives like a training
manual well you got to set that up yeah
dad come over here in 20 minutes don't
trip don't trip I gotta I have to set up
all of these death traps in 20 minutes
then fall asleep fine Freddy and wake up
with him it should be just enough time
yeah the Undine for all these Freddy
movies was always a bit of a problem
they always they always had issues
I mean the problem is how do you defeat
a dream monster yeah oh yeah well
pulling it the idea of pulling them into
the real world is clever yeah but the
elaborate booby traps is not its small
it's just silly yeah it comes across
silly I think the idea of her like
setting up something to trap him or
injure him in some way but right
the execution of it is like you know
hanging the mallet above the door and
all that's across yeah it's more not to
sound sexist but it's more appropriate
for a teenage boy to be doing that or a
younger boy that's why it worked on the
home alone movies because that was that
was an eight-year-old solution to home
invaders yes it does not seem like a
teenaged girl solutions so you're saying
she needs to text Freddy to death well
this was the 1980s she needs to spray
them with Aquanet hairspray in his face
Oh white a lighter in Aquanet hairspray
yeah yeah okay her Blass Duran Duran in
his ears I don't know what girls were
into in the 1980s but yeah
oh here's the bottle again just hanging
out in the bed with the bottle but you
know what I mean like yeah yes he was
out of character a little she could have
been a softball player and just I had a
bat ready you know like that was her
thing okay okay now why is there an
easel against the wall there more weird
sentence yeah I was thinking about the
easel the other day is the implication
of the mom as an artistic side used to
be a painter possibly yeah maybe no one
bought her paintings and that's what
drove her to alcohol does she have like
a painting of like a vodka bottle
there's a stack of her paintings in the
corner and they're all booze bottles
caffeine's worn off by now rich and they
said that puppet puppets never used
whatever you do mom don't turn on the
light in the living room oh that would
just be a comedy of errors if the drunk
mom came downstairs oh man that would be
that would be a good like like plot
device is the mom trips all the the
things and ruins mom daddy just goes
past him with ease
mom I spent a whole 20 minutes setting
this up I got five seconds to go to
sleep and find my nose it's looking
pretty good so now she's dreaming right
well this is yeah now she's dreaming our
basement becomes a boiler room in her
dream yes
yeah I really like how the sequel's
embrace the idea of like going through
one door and you end up oh no she's not
in the boiler but going through a door
and you end up in a completely different
environment I think she goes for the
glove here and it's not there it's not
there yeah
but the dogs playing pool yeah blanket
is still there that's not distracting at
all it's so brightly lit too it's like
that's supposed to be the focus of the
shot though the lighting and this is a
little a little this is the door here we
go this is some spooky stuff here this
is good atmosphere the boiler room stuff
is always in the second movie or the
third no I don't think it comes back to
the fourth one no I think that's what
I'm saying is the fourth it's reset
that's right they they're these are the
elements that work let's focus on those
am i wrong but just Freddy have a tuxedo
on in the second one like he jumps out
at the pool party and stealing a room no
I thought of the pool party but he's
this were in his normal clothes he is a
tuxedo on I want to sing in the third
one when Patricia Arquette's in her
bedroom and her mom comes in and then
Freddie shows up and stabs her mom's
head off with his glove my god I don't
remember
he's wearing a tuxedo in that scene one
of the nuns starts showing up v one v no
well it's established in the third one
and they played up in the fifth one that
and Freddie was the third one is where
you find out that his mom was a nun yeah
who was raped by who's in rental
patients yes son of a hundred maniacs
and then that's sort of a big part of
the fifth one
I like that fifth one I know a lot of
people don't but oddly enough the worst
part about it is Freddie but it's got
this really great gothic look to it and
there's cool things in it mmm yeah I'm
unfamiliar it's been too way too long
what's wrong with Freddie in the Pippin
he atlas from the fourth one is back and
she's pregnant and Freddie is getting
into people's dreams through her
dreaming child oh my god yeah
it's called the dream child it's called
the dream job and then there's a guy who
draws comic books
yes killed by being cut up by super
Freddie your turn Freddie turns him into
a two-dimensional comic-book character
and then cuts them up like just they're
just ready now and then they they they
drop his arm down and shot yeah splash a
little blood on it yeah the fifth one
was a little blah I don't I don't
remember much about it I might
appreciate it now by like the fifth one
quite a bit
I thought the fourth was so awesome
because Alice took all their powers and
then when there's that badass scene
where she's like getting ready and she's
like oh yeah she starts using the
nunchucks and surely a stuntman in a wig
from behind right she's like she beats
him up in the church she kicks him in
the face like 50 times and then that's
the one where Freddie tries it he takes
out a pizza yeah now the little souls
are sausages just all the creative
visual stuff even-even the lesser movies
even the less they're old like the the
sixth one which is not good at all
it still has a couple moments is that
the one with Roseanne Barr yes Arnold
show up in a not not great
oh yeah but it doesn't have a great
scene where there's a kid with the
hearing aid Freddie cuts his hearing aid
off and gives him a new hearing aid and
it's like this monster thing that grows
on his ear and magnifies volume and so
like a pin drop is like this yes
overpowering noise to him and then
Freddie pulls out a chalkboard and
scrapes his fingers on the chalkboard
till the kids fucking head blows
I remember they didn't have like a
scooby-doo van that went into a into a
psychedelic world or something like that
uh there they travel in a van yeah and
then there's the one kid that's like a
STONER yeah and all the psychedelic shit
starts happening they can't leave the
boundaries of they can't Springwood yeah
oh god there's Freddy oh no her plan
didn't work or did it or did it and then
though there's a distracting troll doll
attached to her it's being crucified
it's deliberate imagery oh my gosh rich
rich rich wise there's so much space on
the right side of the frame why why is
there a distracting amount of space on
the right side of the frame sure there's
no reason coffee break no but you should
oh my god if someone started using puns
against Freddy here's your coffee break
that's my thing everything's are gonna
be alright
I guess this part this this could it's a
little like comical that no one comes to
help her after she's screaming and
there's just a murder across the street
well I guess this all could still be a
dream is that's the thing to be a dream
so I suppose
we need that and all sorts of Looney
Tunes sound effects here whoop Kevin
McCallister should have helped her out
in her dream team up movie Freddy vs.
Kevin McCallister this October Freddy is
home alone I'm not even gonna suggest a
mash-up between the footage of home
alone as I've done before in past
commentaries I don't think that's
possible
Oh God I've opened that this painting is
horrible
she's like Freddy out of the way I'm
trying to throw this gasoline at the dog
painting not you now this this is an
impressive stunt
yeah it's just a shame that it's so
obvious that it's a stuntman I'm burning
your house down and you're locked inside
it's not too bad I mean it's pretty he's
pretty bulky Freddy Freddy gained a lot
of weight there's a lot of apple juice
she threw at him I don't know I just
don't like the fact that she's burning a
guy who's already burned for me that's
weird well that's it she thinks she's in
the real world you know she should be
it's it seems reasonable to deduce that
when he's in the real world he does not
have supernatural powers because buddies
are already burned but he's not dead
burn I mean I guess he is dead but not
in the real world it's confusing I don't
know she had access to about 30 shotgun
shells and all she did with them was
pour the powder out into a light bulb
momentary distress a momentary
destruction she could have done so much
more with the weaponry she had she could
have just used that sledgehammer as a
blunt object just beat it with it
instead of the comical like contraption
you walk contraption she made so you're
saying is it needs to be like a 20
minute movie where somebody just beats
Freddy to death
instantly that's kind of what happens at
the end of Freddy's dead which was
supposed to be the last movie so it's
horribly disappointing that it's so like
banal but he gets pulled out into the
real world and then they just jump
dynamite into his oh yeah he blows up
and that's the end of Freddy yeah this
iconic horror movie monster mother so
this is supposed to be a dream this is
still the dream and this is the the
moment when she realizes she's still in
a dream no this was the producer saying
he wanted it this way
not despite the very the last the bear
back out okay I'm morning yeah there was
a Robert Shaye suggestion is there some
kind of deeper subtext to the
mother-daughter relationship and her
alcoholism and dying and yeah sure I
mean you know more about the history of
this movie i I think that it's just
alcohol
you know her being an alcoholic is just
you know a character thing it's just a
weighted cuz they have a nice little
moment like before Nancy goes and to do
her plan like the mother's going to she
puts the mom to bed and yeah I don't
know there's there's some kind of
dynamic there and then the mothers
establish you know did she'll feel bad
when her mom dies this seems like it was
meant to be something more than that I
don't know not that I'm aware of
all right so this is a cool image mm-hmm
it kind of looks like until that part it
looks like a head on a stick though but
it is neat Friday looks pretty badass
there yes
and then this is an entirely different
theme of learning to control your dream
by or learning to control fear by saying
it's all just a dream do you not I mean
like that whole like storyline of I have
power over you if I don't believe in you
which has not been established
throughout the entire film
there was one throwaway line yeah they'd
sucked around it's not a very great
establishment what do they say Johnny
Depp blatantly for no absolutely no
reasons as he dreams of parlors you just
turned your back on the nightmare and
forget about although he's talking about
it's not good it's not that awkward it
just says it no well they're talking
about dreams and he talks about what is
it it's some sort of ideal ideology or
something that that's there believe so
it ties in ok I'm fine with that
this seems contradictory but I'm not
fine with is a blow-up doll getting
pulled through a tiny window I mean I'm
fine with it an unintentional comedy
sense but to end your horror film on it
doesn't quite work I think you supposed
to be scary and shocking it's supposed
to be shocking it was supposed to be
sequel bait mm-hmm it's supposed to be a
number of things that it just doesn't
work is there is there like deleted
scenes or
original footage of how the movie is
supposed to end or yeah well they shot
this scene a few different ways because
they weren't sure how to end it they did
Robert Shaye knew we wanted a different
ending so they shot one where I think
we're they just get into the car and
drive away
and that's it and then I think there's
another one where I don't know if this
one was shot but there was another
ending where she gets in the car and
then Freddy's driving it and then there
might even be another version they shot
it like three or four different ways so
we never saw the real world from the
time she went to bed like 30 minutes ago
basically yeah at what point did the
dream start when she all that her father
to come up to the room in 30 minutes and
right after she set up the traps yeah
she's up the traps then she's laid in
her bed and then everything else has
been a dream oh my god
you can see the wrinkles on the arm like
that's how you end your film apparently
apparently but I mean it worked a
successful movie had a whole string of
successful sequels Freddy Krueger is an
iconic horror character not a flawless
film but one with many great visuals its
ideas oh yeah the central concepts I
think is brilliant
lots of neat set pieces and it paved the
way for some what I feel or better
sequels like what I like the third one
in the fourth one I think one of those
are solid movies I love the fourth one
and the remake of course the iconic
remake oh my god I'm okay with them
doing updated versions of like horror
characters because it's different than
just like remaking something for name
recognition even though that's what they
ended up doing with that Nightmare on
Elm Street remake yeah but uh I mean
like how many different versions of
Dracula there's been like some have been
shitty but then you get you know
Christopher Lee and the hammer ones or
you get the Gary Oldman Francis Ford
Coppola Dracula mmm you know the
difference is I don't know they're gonna
be making Freddy films in like a hundred
years well we don't know they tried they
tried to reboot it but that movie sucked
like if it had been a good movie you
know who knows I mean dragons been
around since what the 1800s yeah we'll
see we'll see if Freddy last that well
that's the thing is though the real
Dracula was much older than that
Dracula's based on a real person that
the book the novel I'm counting the
novel as the first horror Dracula yep
that's fine that's fine that you do that
Bram Stoker Dracula he did he did write
Dracula Mary Shelley wrote Frankenstein
remember that remember I Frankenstein
remember Victor Frankenstein starring
Harry Potter this hasn't come out yet
j-o
comes on November 25th be there
be there or be square well thank you for
watching or listening to our Nightmare
on Elm Street commentary track yes happy
Halloween
and rest in peace Wes Craven and rest in
peace near Manila Street remake
producers whens the remake of the remain
coming out it's coming in on it I'm not
shocked no they should just call it
another Freddy movie here's another one
we're gonna try again they should just
bring Robert Englund back and make
Freddy part eight sure just make the
same amount of money we wouldn't start
with him killing the reboot Freddy oh
that would be great yeah
that's good stuff they kind of did that
with Godzilla because there's the
American go yeah I don't remember what
was the name of the Godzilla movie where
the real Godzilla beat the shit out of
the American guns oh yeah that's a great
idea I'm gonna kill you bridge no I'm
gonna kill you bitch thank you and good
night
