Mar 14, 2015
Alien (1979) Commentary Track
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/576734026066571264
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/10152762756657634
https://redlettermedia.bandcamp.com/track/alien-1979-commentary-track

hello and welcome to the red letter
media half in the bag best of the worst
commentary for the alien series we're
watching Ripley Scott's original alien
film here this is Jay I'm rich and I'm
Mike and we had nothing to do with
making this film and we're doing a
commentary track about it look I may I
may have been 2 years old at the time
but I worked very hard on this film mmm
what did you do rich what did you do on
the movie was the chestburster was a
baby
oh okay do you ever get stopped on the
street like people will recognize you
from that stone well they did really a
good job in the makeup they glued a
little like mouth over my face okay you
get a really good job you look really
convincing as a hideous monster yes yes
Ian Holm is in this film bilbo baggins
yeah the the elder bilbo baggins yeah
from that those hit films the hobbits
Jerry Goldsmith did the music the Jerry
Goldsmith - the music for Star Trek
films - I recognize that now rich in
space no one can hear you what scream no
it's fart ah welcome to the commentary
track please prepare yourself for jokes
like that please hit stop no Jay why are
we doing a commentary track for this
film well there's lots to talk about
alien right now the Neill Blomkamp is
attached to make an alien 5 I hear he's
an alien he's from South Africa right
yeah some some weird place like that
something weird you know what's the
rumor what's alien 5 well there's lots
of rumors but I think the main one that
people are sort of questioning is the
idea that it will ignore alien 3 and
Alien Resurrection is that is that the
worst thing in the world well I know you
love 3 yeah well we'll probably get it
we're gonna talk about the whole series
so I have some controversial opinions on
three
but yeah I don't know it seems they did
this with the Halloween movies too or is
like we're just gonna ignore the last
few like I think I don't know there
should be something to be said for
sticking to Cannon and not just saying I
don't like those so I'm gonna ignore
them
I like aliens so I'm gonna make aliens
part 2 is which is basically what it
sounds like he wants to do yeah well it
Sigourney Weaver's in it or attached or
confirmed idea yeah she's confirmed and
then Michael Biehn I don't know if
that's confirmed nobody is the concept
art the neill blomkamp did involves him
as hicks
okay yeah but they were also younger
people at the point into that concept
art right no this was recent that was
recent he actually made that art
recently haven't yeah yeah well I don't
know I mean when alien a resurrection
was coming out or in production I
remember of rumors were that that that
was going to restart and Hicks and and
new we're gonna be alive now the rumor
oh yeah at the entire events of alien 3
were a nightmare in Ripley's cryopod yes
and that makes sense that was pretty
horrific nightmare Neil alien 3 is a
perfect little nightmare of a movie
could have rebooted the series then but
not rebooted but you know okay yeah I
give it a fresh start but then they made
Alien Resurrection which I didn't know
was written by Joss Whedon yeah until I
rewind it and it really shows if you
watch it now there's a little pre
Firefly crew know the Betty and yeah all
that stuff but I have mixed feelings
about Alien Resurrection yeah I I'm a
fan of this whole series actually died
like every movie to varying degrees the
first three especially I think the theme
that kind of emerges from watching the
first three is just that the aliens have
completely ruined Ripley's life in every
way and that's part of the reason I like
three so much is because part two kind
of has a happy little ending and then
it's completely ripped away from her at
the beginning of three and that that
ties it more in with the first one the
second one like if you go by the
extended cut
actors cut or whatever it's even
realized that she is completely missed
out on her daughter's whole life
Ripley's life is just a living hell
until she dies because of the aliens you
know you know what's fascinating about
you J
you are such a smiling happy fun person
but you love human misery I do I get
outlet for that because nobody's really
heard you're just happy-go-lucky J joy
movie but horrible unfathomable
suffering yeah that's why I'm like three
so much yeah three is just miserable
they're supposed to be horror movies so
you don't want a happy ending at the end
of a horror movie
well aliens isn't a horror movie and
that's okay here's things as an
exception yeah I've discovered I
rewatched all these yeah over the last
couple days and I've discovered the
series is very flawed oh yes this is one
of the most cept for the first film huh
there's almost no flaws in the first of
all the second and the third and the
fourth problems and it's like no one
knows what to do yeah even with this one
it was I mean I watched some of the
behind the scenes stuff and I'm you know
a lot about the history two guys that
started writing it oh yeah Dan O'Bannon
and some other guy in and they're like
we're gonna make a horror film yeah
monster it's space we're gonna sell to
Roger Corman yep and then it is
virtually Calvo and Guyler yeah they
take it and then they change everything
and then you know they have all these
ideas and then the studio people are
coming in and the only thing they liked
from the original Dan O'Bannon script
was the chest burster scene and they
changed everything else because they had
O'Bannon he didn't like Return of the
Living Dead Lee he's a Schlacht guy
that's and I guess he was upset and all
the changes they made Lee as the
production went on which is insane when
you think about it like all they were
doing was trying to make your movie not
cheesy crap right that's like getting
upset at Leonardo da Vinci when he
changes your dogs playing poker idea
into the Mona Lisa
an analogy yes
that's what that was yeah I won't say if
it was a good or bad one I'm
gonna say that that was an analogy I
think it's completely a completely
acceptable analogy yeah I like it but
like really like yeah but the series as
a whole yeah it's a really odd clunky
franchise which is why it's and that's
part of one of the things I like about
is it's like the underdog of big
franchises the only one that was ever
like a big blockbuster was aliens is
this the series every six seven eight
years they make another one it does okay
and then they don't make him for a while
yeah this first one was groundbreaking
because it has a b-movie sci-fi premise
and Ridley Scott came in and he only
made one movie before this now we have
the dual is a duelist and and and it's
like who's this guy and what what is
this going to be yeah and then he's like
I'm gonna make a sci-fi movie but it's
not gonna be cheesy yeah a guy in a
rubber suit even though it was a guy it
is a guy to rubber suit but still he's
like I'm gonna shoot it differently it's
gonna have a different feel to it yeah
and all these sets are incredible and am
very very 2001 inspired a lot of this
opening stuff the the slow you know
lingering shots yeah but you know it's
different and that's different than what
sci-fi was yeah well and the fact that
it's so realistic like oh so like all
the scenes of them sitting around
talking and it's very like
improvisational it seems like like it
just feels like people doing their job
and they're not wearing classic sci-fi
space suits or anything they're just
they're just people they're just like
space truckers yes and and he was tom
skerritt going into the Christmas lights
room everything looks great except for
this room pretty much I think they were
going for like a minimalist just lots of
I don't know it doesn't work exactly
I like the framing of the the wide shots
though with him in the bottom of the
frame like that it's a computer so it's
got to be lots of blinking light this is
it so it's a brain someone thought it
would be like a brain sure yeah yeah it
has a different look than the rest of
the the ship was this stuff was this
stuff redone for DVD released as
graphics I think it has to have been
redone
it sticks out from the rest of the movie
because even when you see like wider
shots with monitors like it doesn't look
like this yeah I think it looked similar
to this but it was just redone it has to
have been like this isn't the director's
cut this is the regular cut but it still
has it feels like something was changed
[Music]
so you said the rest of the series is
very flawed Mike what is what is flawed
about aliens other than it being an
entirely different type of movie it's
not a huge fan of aliens I'm just
curious what you think is flawed about
it it's essentially a remake of alien I
discovered yeah watching it it's the
exact same movie well that's the
interesting thing about the series too
is that each one is basically the same
movie it's well ok there's but there but
they're done in such different styles
and different tones and that's what's
interesting to me they're very director
driven their sequels that ok and sequels
will have similarities like adjacent
sequel well those are all the same
movies you have a guy's stabbing people
like there's going to be hallmarks in
each one but the structure and a lot of
the things that happen in aliens is
exactly the same as this except well ok
because because I wrote down some things
ok
after watching aliens and it's like
James Cameron went and said I like alien
but I want to remake it entirely as an
action movie as an action movie there
there is the opening is different
because Ripley's aboard her spaceship
you know but you got people waking up in
their underwear in a cryo sleep ok there
there is a breakfast scene where all the
characters eat together at the beginning
of the mission you have a drop ship that
lands on the same exact planet lv-426
they send someone out to investigate the
donut ship the Prometheus ship and I'm
speaking of the aliens special edition
or the director's cut yeah yeah where
they send Newt Newt parents and the
children out little truck to investigate
the alien ship and Carter Burks orders
then of course one guy gets a face
hugger stuck to his face and returned to
the base or wherever to infect everyone
with aliens
newts father and John Hurt's character
right
there is a shifty company plant on a
secret mission to retrieve an alien in
the first film it's ash and the second
film it's Paul Reiser both movies have
an Android both have a scene where an
Android suspiciously die sex a face
hugger Bishop does it in aliens and ash
doesn't in this in aliens it's more of a
tease like is Bishop a bad guy like ass
yeah that ends up that movie ends up
subverting what you expect the the robot
to be but you switch switcheroo right
but still there's there's a there's a
company plant and a suspicious Android
yeah both androids get torn ups you milk
out the first one introduces the motion
tracking device that oh yeah that
Veronica Cartwright is using and then of
course the motion trackers they almost
look identical are used in that one
ripley runs around with a flamethrower
and this is in the director's cut of
alien she burns a person cocooned
against the wall who's asking to be
killed that happens need to reach
minimum safe distance before an
explosion at a countdown the and then
when you think everything's all safe of
course the alien Stowe's aboard yes
which happens on release escape pod and
on the mothership on the Sulaco with the
alien queen then ridley sneaks off into
another room to secretly put on a suit
she puts on a space suit and then she
puts on a power loader then the alien is
blasted out of Accra airlock yeah yet
which leaves are flying into space with
a bad special effects with the been
accompanied by a bad special effect
multi man of course they ended and
sleeping in a crowd chamber both movies
they're identical except for one has
Space Marines in it yeah and they're
they're trapped on a planet mm-hmm
you're not a spaceship not a spaceship
yeah so identical films completely
identical well that's that's the
interesting thing identical as far as
like the plot points but completely
different in style in tone oh yeah and
that's that's one of the interesting
things about this whole series is each
movie feels like that to me it's like
alien 3 it's even
even though he's disowned it it's very
much David Fincher movie yeah an Alien
Resurrection is is is very much a kooky
French man movie with a joss whedon
script yeah yeah alien 3
I watched the and I watched I'd like the
James Cameron director's cut to a
certain degree say I don't like it as
much as a theatrical the only scene are
you familiar with director's cut
yeah okay what were you saying Jay oh
the only the only scene that I think
that the film could have been improved
by is is Ripley finding out about her
daughter
that completely gives their motivation
and more of a connection to knew and all
that that's the only thing you need
that's why I like the director's cut but
that's the only scene I like everything
else feels bloated to me that's the big
scene yeah this her is her I don't like
where it's shot oh sure like a
holographic park or something yeah it's
shot in front of like a projection
screen yeah she's like sitting on a park
bench
yeah and then there's comes enters
through no who tells her polarizer I
think it comes in and he tells her she
has a daughter and what and yeah that
that and then you have those themes
because really if you had that scene you
look at it the alien is really aliens is
really a movie about a mother learning
to deal with the loss for daughter yes
and finding a new family by replacing
her daughter with another daughter it
becomes a new family unit then you have
the the added layer of the Queen alien
protecting her young right right and so
there's like multiple layers of
motherhood thieves yes open and you take
that scene out loses it that seems great
and also what I love are the the remote
controlled machine guns oh yeah
that's great that added some tension for
me okay because it's like they're
shooting and then you see the bullet
count going and you hear them you hear
them getting in and without those scenes
it's kind of like you forget about the
aliens for a long period of time that's
true until they start coming in through
the ceiling yeah the only shit I really
hate in the James Cameron director's cut
is showing the colonists before oh yeah
everyone's the nah I mean I guess you
know what the alien is at this point but
it's still like when the Marines show up
and they're wandering or
that has so much more attention if you
don't see what happened before I see
like the inner workings of the colony
and there's the guy I got a sudden
somebody out the company wants us to do
this alone
that's like and now and we don't seem I
can agree with that yeah we don't need
to see news family and all that
it's nice when they go there and
discover the right of the ruined colony
and because then it's like we're going
with the Marines yeah from their
perspective and that's all great but
that's another connection another
similarity between alien and aliens is
nothing happens for like the first hour
and then shit goes crazy
yeah and wandering around with camcorder
vision that happens in both of them it's
like early versions of found footage
like found footage movies okay yeah
camcorder footage in this one yeah you
see it in this one too
oh that's right yeah which apparently
Ridley Scott just shot on a
consumer-grade camcorder yeah doesn't
the future they still have VHS yes
that's what he shot at camcorders there
is a shot in alien 3 the special edition
which I didn't remember mmm when
ripley's up spoilers ripley throws
herself into a burning hot ticket when
she's up on a platform or something yeah
and then the company men are there and
one of them was like a gigantic Oh
that's Cameron yeah Lance Henriksen is
like no pictures yeah yeah I don't
remember that cut that out because even
in 1993 yes that one that's from video
cameras weren't even that big but the
space video camera it's a different
technology in a different part of the
universe Oh picture pictures I was like
that cut off and then there's
romantically different ending between
the theatrical and the the assembly kind
of alien 3 remember it yeah it's shot
differently too yeah oh yeah it's it's a
very different movie I liked it a lot I
didn't even mind the theatrical cut of
alien 3 I know some people just hate it
but I really liked the assembly code of
alien 3 in fact oh go ahead I've always
seen that the a triple cut I've seen it
once because I'll do really horribly
disappointed
yeah because I was an alien's fan that
was the first one I saw it was aliens
yeah
well that's maybe that's why it's
different for me is that I didn't grow
up with aliens like a lot of people from
our generation like I I don't know why I
didn't avoid it ice never saw it but
everybody loves aliens and when I saw it
I like alien more I think that's kind of
literacy first um I think I saw him back
to back
I think cuz I didn't see alien growing
up either I saw it when I was a little
bit older well yeah I think I think we
are slightly beyond the alien generation
yeah because well yeah that was 70 yeah
a 79 yeah and so we were kids when
aliens came out yeah and then I had to
go back and watch alien I think there's
a lot of people that saw aliens growing
up that never even saw alien yes it just
felt like a standalone movie almost yeah
and it's so different and that's the
thing this movie here alien like it
doesn't feel dated at all except for
maybe some of the visual effects aliens
feels very very 80s to me it's kind of
action schlock but let's rock and lines
like that
it's the Space Marines you know I don't
know if I have the glasses nostalgia
glasses on with aliens but there it was
it felt a little dated pon are you
watching it it's a good movie still I
don't want to this is the thing is like
it's everyone loves aliens everyone
really likes alien and then after that
is when most people are like fuck alien
3 fuck healing resurrection aliens is
not my favorite in the series and it's
not even my second favorite I like a li
I like alien 3 more than aliens really
yeah hmm aliens it's one of my all-time
favorite movies and my my family had a
very lacks attitude towards r-rated
movies I saw that shit in the theater
when I was like 9 and holy fuck yeah 9
is that a movie
oh yeah there's an article written
recently about someone that showed at
his kid's birthday party just recently
showed them aliens and like how even now
today like how much kids got into it at
least in the second half when goes once
that movie gets going and like it's
yeah it's relentless and that's fine and
I know that's why I yell a lot of people
hate alien 3 is because coming off of
aliens it's exciting movie everybody
likes Hicks for some reason everyone
likes new it for some reason
so you kill him off in the opening and
it's just this like dour miserable movie
but to me I was like why after watching
alien and then watching aliens is like
oh it's action now CJ Bowman loves human
misery it's it's it's a thematic thing
for me it's not just that it's miserable
and it fits in more with the the tone of
this movie of the first movie yeah an
aliens is just so drastically different
and I appreciate that like I wish more
sequels would take chances like that by
going in such a different direction that
would never happen now like everything
has to be like make it as close in in
tone and style to the first movie
because I only have three kind of pops
oh yeah and I understand why people
don't like it like I get it because
there's so many people that loved aliens
so much yeah the scene in alien 3 that
sells it for me is the sole series being
about the tragic life of Ripley is uh
she's down in like a basement or
whatever she's trying to find the alien
and she's just talking to the alien just
talking you know doesn't know where it
is and she says you've been in my life
so long I don't remember anything else
and I love that line and I know that
seen it apparently because that was just
an endlessly troubled production the
producers wanted to cut that scene
they're like David Fincher you're not
shooting that scene and so he just him
in Sigourney Weaver just like they just
grabbed a camera and just went and shot
it like without a crew or anything and
it's one of the best scenes of the movie
so what was that line that she says it
go she says you've been in my life so
long I don't remember anything else from
her point of view at that point it's
only been like three weeks but she's
lost everything she's like she's lost
you know her child she's never getting
back to earth it's still only been like
three weeks well that's a tragic couple
of weeks right there's a while she went
back to earth and she worked as a
construction worker that's where most of
the three weeks is I guess yes she is
she has like a few terrifying hours and
the Nostromo then she has like a few
terrifying days on the colony and then a
few more terrifying days and then she
commits suicide if everything you've
cared of everyone you cared about and
everything you've fought for like it's
just completely ripped from you I would
think that would affect you probably
affect me pretty heavily but I would not
say it's been so long hmm see rich rich
is right the studio was right
it's animatic thing more than a literal
thing maybe she's talking about her
career I think security Weaver's dead
just fine
she's been free for a while now from the
alien series yeah but now she wants more
but now she's back oh yeah that was the
weird thing there was an interview with
her recently where she's saying like
I've always wanted to give proper
closure to this series it's like what
wasn't that what alien 3 was supposed to
be you fucking die at the end yeah it's
nice to become pathetic after a while
like I don't know it's like it reminds
me of Harrison Ford like why do more
Indiana Jones yeah bow out gracefully
and that I have some respect for like a
Bill Murray where you just won't do
those whatever the fuck he wants yeah
yeah
so you're any believer seems above that
but I guess actors are naturally
narcissistic it might be a thing where
she just she has affection for the
series and it's become like a nostalgic
thing now like oh it's been so long I
would like to go back and do another one
I don't think it's for money she's doing
fine she's an avatar two three four five
and six
coming soon to a theater near you
wouldn't an actor pushing 70 you want to
do like like grandma's teacup club or
something like you know steel magnolias
something based on a play if she wants
to play a badass that's that's right
maybe maybe she likes aliens maybe she
likes science fiction maybe she likes
monsters you don't know I'm pretty sure
she doesn't has she been in any movie
that hasn't had like some kind of alien
sci-fi element normal she's been in
plenty of movies name one I'm just
curious saying you can't I'm not saying
it's never happened I can't think of it
she's been in um fucking movies that I
don't watch so that's I don't know the
days of us doing some like prop
president movie like oh she was in Dave
with Kevin Kline that's what I'm
thinking okay that fits all right she
was in Heartbreakers with Jennifer Love
Hewitt that classic yeah but you're just
thinking of a lian's and ghostbusters an
avatar
yeah avatar that's the stuff you know
where from yeah that's true those are
the kind of movies i watch yeah anyway
so there's the Droid control ship from
Star Wars Episode one The Phantom Menace
the Prometheus donut that appears in
prometheus that's a similar-looking
planet but it's not the same it's not
the same planet it's not the same ship
they just look exactly a lot you know
what's funny is revisiting all these
aliens movies alien movies whatever like
I watched the four and then I completely
forgot about prometheus well here's the
next even directed by Ridley Scott yeah
yeah well this is the thing is like they
approached Ridley Scott to do alien 3
and his idea was he wanted to make a
movie that shows the origin of the
xenomorph so even back then like he
wanted to tell this origin story and
then so finally he makes it with
Prometheus and it's like we'll be seen
coming up soon we'll be seeing the big
thing that is
known as the space jockey whenever I've
seen this movie before Prometheus
existed before I knew Ridley Scott
wanted to do that I never ever thought I
wonder what the backstory of this thing
is yeah cuz it doesn't matter like it's
world building and it's it's you know
from this movie you know it was some
alien race that you know ran a run-in
with the aliens like I don't care it's
like in a zombie movie if a character
comes across an abandoned car like I
wonder how that abandoned car got there
like it does not matter it's just it's
the stage of which the play happens yeah
it's it's a sin oh yeah it's yeah the Z
the the space jockey it makes no
difference
yeah the movies about an alien that
hides in the shadows and now you're
scared that's going to eat your face
it's great world building to have this
giant like you know you see it and
you're like it's clearly some you know
other alien race but I don't understand
Ridley Scott's obsession with wanting to
explore that more well I'm I find that
interesting
taking a mean you have to expand your
universe why and I think that's why a
lot of people didn't like alien 3
because it was more the same I mean it
was different
in its approach like but really the
aliens running around yeah
aliens introduced the Queen yeah man
they only three just kind of goes back
to basics the the thing with alien is
alien works as a standalone movie and
it's almost like the Borg rich you know
and we talk about the Borg the best of
both worlds is it yeah that's all you
need to do with the board the Borg are
assisting giant cube in space of boobs
soulless people like unbeatable monsters
unbeatable monsters yes and and the
purpose of the Borg was its terrifies us
the thought of us losing our humanity or
individuality and one of our own
becoming one of them that's it that's
sorry we don't need to learn just
rehashing that anything else it's not
important alien it's look at these great
sets isn't it weird isn't as alien weird
it's terrifying what we don't see is
terrifying yes and and that's pretty
much it
aliens took a little different twist on
it
with by making it an action movie and
that was that made it that expanded you
the introduction of the Queen where the
eggs come from yeah the Queen is a
schlocky idea though they basically they
basically gave the Alien franchise a
boss monster a yo game boss monster but
it does tie in thematically with you
know motherhood and all that stuff so
and that's that that works and then
after that it's like you know we don't
need we don't need a backstory we don't
need to learn that the space jockey was
a nine foot tall blue man you know all
this like oh you he started the human
race with the space virus yeah well it's
like either make an alien prequel or
don't make something completely
different but that was the Prometheus it
was like this weird it kind of is but
not really and it doesn't know what it
wants to be and it just turns into a
mess at the end the the the neat thing
about Alien Resurrection and I like
alien 3 a lot I like it more than Alien
Resurrection I think everybody Alien
Resurrection finally got us to that
stage of not what is the backstory of
aliens yeah but what will humans do when
they try to weaponize it yes and yeah
and that stuff was neat which is what
they keep talking about in the earlier
movies as any company wants yeah and
it's like okay we get that scene when
they they have human cargo and they're
all strapped in in a circle oh yeah
with eggs in front of their faces yeah
and then have you seen Alien
Resurrection spoiler I don't give a shit
bro I didn't like I hated the three so
much I was done with the franchise after
that oh okay well we're all glad you
prepared for this commentary but they
had they of humans that they kidnap and
they put them all in a big room and they
they're strapped in their heads are
locked in place and they bags in front
of them and they're breeding Haley
essentially uh under the radar and then
they have them in little chambers and
the one the scene when the guys shooting
in the liquid nitrogen or whatever yeah
that's right aim them and and then
trolled on Lauren's really quickly and
then they have a queen traps that clone
Ripley and all the crazy shit and then
of course
in five minutes it all goes to hell yeah
yeah it turns into another aliens movie
basically but a movie exploring that
more would be interesting yeah as
opposed to learning more about the
illness we don't need to learn more yeah
we don't need any more movies with
scenes of the characters running through
corridors and the alien jumping out at
them like we've seen enough of that
yeah but that's that's the thing with an
alien resurrection is there's enough
elements that are interesting to me
where I don't think it's it's ultimately
kind of pointless because the story arc
of Ripley is done at the end of the
third movie because she dies so the idea
of cloning or is just like a cheap way
to get her back into the series but at
the same time like Sigourney Weaver
looks like she's having a blast in that
movie Oh like because she's there's some
alien DNA in her like she looks like
she's just having fun so that's gonna
need and the scene where she finds all
the the failed clone attempts is great I
like that seen a lot yeah there's enough
um enough really good scenes in that to
carry it through it's kind of like
subpar plotting yeah yeah and by the the
semi kooky Joss Whedon dialogue oh yeah
everyone's a little too quick at
inappropriate times yeah it's very mild
in that but it still doesn't seem
appropriate yeah - the aliens stories
like this movie this movie the dialogue
is so mundane and oh yeah that and
realistic realistic there's no there's
no silly ass scene scenes in this row
Sigourney Weaver plays basketball yes
the one thing that's like roll rolls
your eyes stupid in Alien Resurrection
is when well who's the guy with the big
ugly face Oh Ron Perlman Ron Perlman Ron
Perlman like the aliens are he's
shooting at them and then he's all
paranoid then he turns and they racked
focus - OH
later yeah yeah shoots the spider yeah
but that's again like like I say it like
all these movies are basically the same
movie just told from a different
directors point of view and that's
another one like it's more aliens
running around corridors and people
trying to you know escape but it's done
and such and like
really I mean it's John PNA is very
stylish lots of wide-angle lenses and
Dutch angles and flowing camera movement
and a lighter sort of more whimsical
tone so that's
jean-pierre Janae's version of alien I
mentioned be very hard to do a different
kind of story with the aliens because
they're really when you boil it down
they're just a monster that runs around
and grabs people well that's the thing
with alien resurrection is there are
elements of that well that I'm trying to
the you know trying to weaponize them
and yeah it would be more interesting if
they took that further ultimately though
this is not the original alien is not a
film that needs an entire universe and a
series of films devoted to it no but
that's what happens when a film makes it
but that's what happens but if they
didn't you know if they didn't make a
sequel we wouldn't have aliens yeah
that's true and everybody loves aliens
except for you
that's true I like aliens that I don't
want to come across like I like I hate
it or something yeah I just like I like
everything in it but the aliens that's
my one of my biggest problems whether it
is like this movie there's a couple
parts I mean the design of the alien the
HRE your design is is great but it's
ultimately a guy in a rubber suit mmm
and this movie tries to hide that a lot
by having the alien in shadows and you
just catch glimpses of it or see like
weird close-ups of it and in aliens it's
just a bunch of guys jumping around in
rubber suits yeah getting shot at at
endlessly which makes the aliens much
less threatening yeah this sort of had
the the jaws Spielberg jaws yeah effect
intentionally where jaws they wanted to
show the shark all the time but it never
worked it ever worked yeah I was like
okay well you don't see it very often
that makes it scary and then this one
it's like intentional because they
didn't want to show a guy in a rubber
suit right and and that works it works
in a horror movie way you know you don't
show this creature too much but aliens I
love I love all the characters even the
grunts well they're all they're all and
they're not annoying to me they're fun
yeah they're all distincts Bill Paxton
isn't no
you know some people love him but oh my
god you don't even like they'll pack
some of them I love Bill Paxton in
general but in that movie I think he's
so obnoxious he's constantly whining
yeah well that's just character isn't
that the point though I mean he starts
off with the most confident man in the
world sure I get that good time you guys
to go looking yeah that's the movie goes
along it gets more grating to me okay
yeah I understand that
yeah I understand that perspective but
just though the weaponry the ships the
the production design and all the sets
like I like that movie and it's fun yeah
there's a fun pace to it and you know
it's a little rocky and well aliens
compared to this movie aliens feels like
a movie like it's got all these
characters and they're these distinct
you know characteristics there it's like
this is the you know this is the leader
character this is the coward character
like they're movie characters here an
alien you get a little bit of
information that makes you understand
everybody's personality but you don't
have a lot of backstory or it just feels
more more naturalistic and more original
yeah so I guess it just depends on what
kind of movie you want to watch I I'm
more into slow atmospheric dread than
you know marine action but they're both
good movies
Richie sings better than you that's
exactly what I'm saying
your favorite movie sucks is what I'm
saying most people think they're better
than me and most of them are right it's
funny cause it's true so what about this
movie I will say the first half of this
movie is more interesting to me than the
second half until Ripley's all alone
because there's a long stretch where
it's basically just a slasher movie oh
very well shot and very atmospheric but
yeah all of this like this is one of
those movies I wish I wish I could see
for the first time again like not
knowing where it's going as you discover
like the the the
when you discover the reproductive
system of the alien yeah like it this
thing is on this guy's fucking face like
this is terrifying what is happening you
don't know the whole process yeah
why does something need to be on his
face that long I mean it's basically
just shoving a thing at his stomach well
you don't know how long that process
takes rich well if we're gonna talk
about the alien life cycle in the
process there and we should talk about
that it makes just about as much sense
as the gremlins where you have a lot of
questions like well in this movie
there's a deleted scene that shows Tom
Skerritt the Dallas character cocooned
against the wall in the slime yeah which
of course happens in aliens when all the
colonists are cocooned and the purpose
of doing that is that so that
facehuggers can implant them with
embryos yeah and in this movie it's just
an alien on board so he cocoons them for
what reason no reason well I remember
the deleted scene right because this is
before there was even a concept for the
Queen I think he was just turning them
into the eggs right into the egg it was
like a different system yes originally
okay who went right into the eggs tom
skerritt like was being turned into an
egg into an egg I think so like
motivation of the pod people
kind of in Reverse it was like that is
why the alien was attacking them so he
could turn them into the alien eggs okay
that's like what and then why why is the
alien why does the alien just kill just
because he's mean or gonna eat something
is he eating them there's no sign that
he eats them well this you just like
harima does he kill how many of you see
him kill all of them except for Tom
Skerritt he kills you off at Coto
he kills Bronk he doesn't cocoon anyone
elses no he just like grabs them and
like murders them and that moves on
there's no Sun stud he's eating because
he's hungry I have I have to watch this
deleted scene I thought it was more than
one I thought Tom Skerritt was ailing
when they had lines but I thought they
were all like they're all
cocooned in there I think there's some
other like dead faces and yak I can't
remember but all this is just reason to
watch the theatrical cut instead yeah
watch the theatrical cut of all these
movies except for alien 3 I think was
just flat-out deleted the scene I don't
think I've made it into the director's
cut because oh yeah well I guess yeah
they probably wouldn't do that because
then it would at that point
aliens exists yeah this Ridley Scott in
his director's cuts some of those things
where they don't really like there
wasn't some mastermind who said this is
the entire life process of the alien no
you get just enough information not I
mean but yeah they've come a little
ideas play around with it and then
someone else expands on it yeah and then
when you stand back and look at the
whole thing not everything makes
complete sense what doesn't make sense
specifically to you well this one like
what cocooning people the aliens yeah
that other than to turn them into eggs
but then there's no Queen the Queen's in
mint right next why did a queen lay all
those eggs on the prometheus ship and
this would assume we'll find out in
Prometheus - I'm sure oh sure sure
I can't wait because now we're gonna
have Prometheus - and alien 5 yes we
need all these different ways of
exploiting this one simple horror film
from the late seventies my
interpretation is that the space jockey
is an other ship not unlike the Nostromo
that ran across the aliens yeah then the
alien ran around and basically the same
thing that happen yeah that's all I ever
thought I liked it we don't need a
backstory and that's how the eggs got on
that ship there was an alien infestation
that I guess that crashed they could
live for a long time sure sure the Queen
alien may have been there just sleeping
somewhere well yeah we have no idea how
long that ships been there or maybe long
dead maybe that eggs outlasted the Queen
nothing to eat on that abandoned planet
it's possible yeah but we don't need to
know these things that's the thing this
is all just a backstory but now we live
in a world where everything has to have
a universe the alien's universe right
now we're gonna have the Ghostbusters
expanded universe multiple Ghostbusters
movies released at the same time as
everyone wants to be Marvel I know just
make a good movie when the Marvel films
eventually a sooner or later they're
gonna start tanking it will all in then
it'll all come crashing down I'm gonna
know this remake alien I'll never ever
get tired of a bunch of superheroes
fighting supreme god-like being and
throwing them into cars and knocking
buildings down you're gonna you're gonna
love the Infinity Gauntlet what does
that mean that means all of the
superheroes get together to fight a god
alien what I'm already tired of it at
least in the comic book they fail
horribly they won't do that in the
movies no you can't have your hero fail
okay we've leave diverged too much let's
talk about this scene this is this is re
watching the movie it has a different
feel to it when you know the backstory
of Ashe here oh yeah I was a little
subtle look he's yeah great performer
that's so you haven't talked about the
performances in this movie but
everybody's great very uh everything
just feels so real like people are
talking over each other and and
everybody just looks grungy
you're saying new movies don't feel real
Jane I am I'm some do but but that's
again like comparing this movie to
aliens like this movie feels natural and
real and aliens feels like a movie which
is fine it's a different thing but this
just has I mean and was there anything
before this that had like a sci-fi movie
where everyone's just wearing like
normal clothes in space no this has to
be like what are the first movies that
did that yeah it was part of their thing
they didn't want him wearing like goofy
Flash Gordon spacesuits right
well even like what she's wearing at the
end you know like that's the closest
they get to any sort of traditional
sci-fi spacesuit thing you know like a
Star Trek nobody has any fashion sense
by which Star Trek the original series
any any of them any of them what the
fuck you wearing yeah whenever there's a
civilian I'm sure yeah yeah they try and
make it a little too weird yeah
apparently
Harrison Ford turned down the Tom
Skerritt oldness hmm which I'm kind of
glad about like I like that this movie I
mean we know all these people now but
like no one knew Sigourney Weaver when
this was made no that was our first film
was it her first film okay I know it was
early in her career but now a very first
acting job event commercials or
something she was doing plays or
Broadway hers sure but yeah our very
first role but yeah like I mean when
this movie starts you don't realize
she's the protagonist like he would have
no way of knowing right which one of
these characters is gonna make it
towards the make it to the end of the
movie which is great what all those
buttons do why they need that many
buttons they all perform a function
which is a big spaceship knows need to
discovers all these sets were
interconnected oh yeah that like the
Nostromo sets there's I mean they like
built the whole thing the way no as it
is right looking like one way in and one
way out that's why you can just walk
around it that's pretty fucking awesome
yeah cuz we're at least got just wanted
to like shoot freestyle oh sure to stuff
so you just walk around the inside of
the spaceship the sad thing is I'm sure
it all got the wrong the garbage from a
doctor yeah what are you gonna do with
it really yeah what do you do with a
giant spaceship that's actually you know
you mean before ebay let oh that's true
yeah yeah it's a massive amount of space
you don't know if the film's gonna be a
hit until six months later somebody
would buy their shit I would live in
this yeah they'd buy it and then they
would turn it into their house
now you know well I'm sure after a wild
start falling apart the hot glue would
start to rot away well that's that's
what your money for from ticket sales go
sterile okay detour be a fun tour you
know you're good to walk around there's
a great little I'll take them the next
generation blu-rays Patrick Stewart's
standing by the half stations on the
enterprise tea and like a little council
panel just falls off and then he picks
it up and someone's like oh get Bob over
here if he's sick he's like oh I got it
I got it he's like pushing the glue on
these things weren't built to last
I built to be shot and then torn down
well it since it yeah it's fun to think
about like I mean this this movie
especially if they'll feel so real
almost feels like a documentary in parts
and the scene in particular like it's
creepy when the the facehugger finally
falls down but I'm just picturing like
there's a guy on a ladder just told them
the thing ready to drop it oh yeah well
the behind-the-scenes stuff on the whole
face hugger scene is pretty interesting
yeah well I know that's they that was
they just let it happen like for real
kind of right like sort of it the
misconception is that none of the actors
knew that the face hugger that's what
they always say they all really knew and
they shot it in segments and then at
first it didn't work right like it
didn't rip through the shirt so they had
to redo it never wanted to leave but the
one the one thing that was really the
shocking part was the amount of blood
splatter okay the force of it you're
saying it facehugger you be the chest
burster just sorcery yes right sorry
because it's like BAM and then it's shot
all over Veronica Veronica Cartwright
freaking out and I don't know like yeah
and then did it show she slips on blood
and falls over but yeah there's a guy
under the table there's a hole in the
table and he's got thinking a stick yeah
shoving it through like they don't make
movies like that anymore unfortunately
uh the facehugger it's the creepiest
fucking thing my favorite scene in
aliens is when Newt and Ripley are stuck
in the room with the face huggers and
the sprinklers are going off and yeah
yeah that one's shot where it climbs up
over the thing and it jumps at her face
and there's like frames edited out oh
you gotta make it quicker yeah that
whole scene is great they're almost more
terrifying they're small they could be
anywhere
yeah yeah and they don't look like a guy
in a rubber suit that looks like like
such an organic real thing I believe it
was yeah I feel like oysters or
something yeah yeah that and earlier in
the egg it's apparently that was like
house-to-house stomach yes tripe kind of
the lining of a cow's tongue yeah you
really oldish guts yeah use real goo and
that's what I love about this movies
like combine so many elements of like
it's a sci-fi movie it's a slasher movie
for a little while and then all this
stuff with the facehugger it's like body
horror like something is is incubating
inside your body and it's going to burst
out like that's terrifying yeah well
that's the that's the big element that's
old this movie and in claustrophobia
like all these tiny little corridors
yeah I can just imagine this movie as
like cuz I know you're saying they
originally we're talking about wanted to
be like a Roger Corman production like I
can see that whole movie when I can see
this movie done in that style completely
in my head yeah that's called Galaxy
invaders
when did wouldn't Halloween come out 78
would this okay I'm so I'm assuming this
is in production before that I'm
probably doing right around the same
time I know Ridley Scott one of his
frame of references that he was the crew
this Texas Chainsaw Massacre as far as
just like gritty realistic terror not
just not just like a generic horror
movie but genuine terror mmm also kind
of just like the slasher like powerful
monsters slash killer takes people out
one by one
yeah yeah that was a recent thing at
this point yeah yeah probably
shortly after this I think was the the
real glut of slasher movies like early
80s but I mean this does you know once
the alien is fully formed it turns into
a slasher movie it's characters
wandering off by themselves looking
around and then getting killed
only beautifully shot which most slasher
movies weren't the scene later on when
uh Harry Dean Stanton is in that room
and there's just those hanging chains
and the water drippy and like it's great
why are there hanging chains what does
that rule I guess we just talked about
it with that rule about scream it's the
chain room rich I'll bring that up again
once we're in the chain okay okay I
believe or at least got explained the
water dripping was like condensation
like this is some sort of cooling room
or something yeah yeah yeah that makes
sense you know
BIG's big ass ship yeah got a cool the
engines that sort of thing love all this
shaking mm-hmm
it's great you can picture the crew
members like oh yeah yeah and I think
Ridley Scott did a lot of his own
handheld work for those so as he's
behind the camera just shaking it do
they land the entire Nostromo or some
sort of support
I always forget Oh big when it shows it
going up yeah
and then she's got that little tiny pod
that she escapes in yeah they didn't
land that whole fucking oil refinery did
they I believe they did oh we were
talking over all that stuff about
something unrelated but I believe they
didn't space Mike you do what they want
that's true still you have a you have a
support craft that goes down I like this
little bit
I'm Harry Dean Stanton keep saying right
right because he's a sassy motherfucker
yeah I mean Yaphet Kotto they just want
more money
they're the belowdecks guys yeah they're
there to make money yeah yep there's a
blue-collar space worker he's these
aren't freedom fighters space truckers I
love like a look behind Harry Dean
Stanton there there's just like pictures
of shit just tape to the tape to the
console like if this scene wasn't in a
spaceship if it was just like in a
warehouse or something you know it it
just feels so natural what's his name in
the the Indiana Jones for movie god I
can't remember professor which Moxley
that thinks yeah that's his best role
since this yeah oh my god does John hurt
John hurt John hurt was also the host of
did you ever see the the Jim Henson
series the storyteller he was like the
narrator for it he's like the
Cryptkeeper type character than in all
the stories
it was a good show just remember one
about a guy who caught death in a bag
and then he couldn't die remember that
would so we're approaching the famous
dinner scene right yeah I think that's
right after yeah yeah yeah here we go
and this is just yeah you know this was
just like Ridley Scott saying just talk
about things like it's so this is not
scripted dialogue no and he didn't he
didn't he's one of those directors that
doesn't like to coddle the actors and
give them all this advice yeah he's just
like the actors are the ones that do the
job yeah I got other shit to do
yeah yeah a huge part of directing is
just casting the right people mm-hmm I
mean letting them do their thing and
people still smoke in the future it's so
far in the future that people smoke
again okay came back around they cured
cancer oh great that makes sense
we need a prequel film to explain all
this to us reg that'll be in Prometheus
3 Prometheus 3 : alien 6 I want to know
the life cycle of Joe Camel
well technically it'll be like alien 7
or 8 because there's the the blonde camp
alien that's alien 5 oh well that's
gonna be alien 5 well how do you count
the alien vs. predator movies you just
don't I know earlier I was saying
respect cannon but you can just skip
those well those take place the second
one I know I haven't seen it yet but I
know it takes place on earth they will
take place on earth right what the first
one was in like Antarctica or whatever
that's cheaper to film so yes yeah yeah
the Fleck from the city film The Sex in
the City - which also has a famous
chestburster scene oddly enough you know
we're talking about sex of the city -
one of the most iconic scenes in movie
history rich those rich as a baby that
was five hours of makeup oh wow
they had to make me look prettier okay
too ugly and I said and now orange just
did not get knocked over during that
whole scene I find that hard to believe
like this space they have magnetic
glasses because you don't want your
glass floating around in the
zero-gravity that's very true
there's no zero gravity there's
artificial Greg that might go out might
break you know why your glass floating
around great maybe it's will be shards
of glass everywhere when I drink bumps
into the wall a very important have
magnetic glass I need a prequel to
explain about the orange juice container
where's Damon Lindelof write this write
this up the blue Godman place the orange
juice and then the stroma huh yeah well
they were able to make it out of a magic
blood the black goo yeah this film needs
more black goo now we were not in our
half of the bag episode we were not as
harsh on Prometheus as a lot of other
people were and I remember at the time
there was some comments that I I was a
Ridley Scott apologist or a reference
that a Ridley Scott fanboy which really
isn't true I like this movie I'm trying
to think of there's any other Ridley
Scott movies that I really like I don't
care for Blade Runner I think it's
amazing visually and technically but I
don't care for the story at all everyone
likes gladiator
I don't like gladiator why I haven't
seen it since the theater I would have
to re-watch it but I remember now I
think it shocked that that Joaquin
Phoenix the king of Rome or whatever
wants to fight him in the ring oh yes
silly that's when the movie that that's
what kills the movie for me actually I
love the movie up until that yeah cuz I
know I know that was one crazy Roman
Emperor who actually did fight in but
not that character the way he was
presented he was he was an arrogant kind
of jerk
wasn't like a combat guy he wouldn't
have done that no he's a spineless yeah
kind of guy but backstabbing kind of ya
know the gladiators it's good film and
you know you know there's some great
sequences yes I really I love everything
about it except for the end it kind of
reminds me of like Braveheart you know
there's some great fight sequences
there's there's like a smallsy love
story yeah like the gladiators wife and
child get killed right yeah and at the
end he meets them in heaven yeah it's
very brave hardest words but it's good
film and and I think I actually liked
why are you shouting I don't know Ridley
Scott's Robin Hood prequel oh okay
because it had nothing to do with Robin
Hood it's just it was like a somewhat
reality-based thing like because Robin
Hood's based on some kind of real story
yeah and and it's like yeah and it's
just like a war movie hmm and I don't
know what else does Ridley Scott made I
like and everybody hated this movie I
really like Hannibal oh yeah the size of
the line he made that you made that yeah
and everybody hates that because it's
it's it's dumb flock compared to Silence
of the Lambs which is true it's not the
one where big guy gets eaten by pigs
yeah and a Mason Verger I think played
by Gary old yeah and a Hannibal Lecter
feeds Ray Liotta his own brain yes the
movie with the the absolute best I think
that's all anybody likes about that
movie yeah that's that's the thing with
Ridley Scott great design great look and
that one too as a great score the
tangerine dream score but he tends to be
style over substance like I don't this
movie not included like he doesn't seem
to care too much about characters or
performance as much as he does about the
visuals yeah well then it's real good
that he doesn't write his own scripts
you know who does write their own
scripts who is a Neill Blomkamp who is
making alien v now J named three films
Neill Blomkamp is
oh he made district 9 risk can you name
one district nine illicium and
what's-his-face it just came out and I
can't remember the name let's see the
theaters know a Chevy Chevy oh boy
chappie yeah
Chevy short circuit with machine guns he
could make a good Alien movie if he
didn't write it yeah I hope he doesn't
write it actually I just hope they don't
make it but that's not gonna happen
what would you want to see in a new
alien film rich they don't need to make
one they are making one inevitable mix
oh ok they're going to make one and say
you are given the opportunity to make
one or produce one your FB i-- i would
do whatever they wanted me to do as long
as i was getting money ok listen you're
getting money either way right but
you're the guy
your other guy and they said rich Evans
you are the producer you're the
executive producer you get to pick the
script the cast the plot you're the guy
who calls the shots what kind of alien
movie do you want to make I don't know I
don't know I say I'm a fan of aliens I
might go the action schlock route I
might I don't know that I would involve
Sigourney Weaver no I don't know the
franchise needs her anymore would you
would you cast an all-new Ripley played
by Melissa McCarthy or Kristen Wiig have
a Christina you gotta work Chris Pratt
and there's some how can you can he know
he made it separate you make two alien
fives one with most McCarthy and one
with Chris Pratt and then you have your
alien Cinematic Universe he can be the
funny Hicks okay Chris Pratt would need
to start though he could play a minor
grunt he's got a star yeah yeah you know
what I would like to see in an alien
movie and I think they may have done
this with the second alien vs. predator
movie is the aliens on earth like
unleashed in a town or something because
at least said something different but
isn't isn't that alien vs. predator -
well I haven't seen it I think that's
what happens but I'm assuming it's a bad
example of that happening I mean how
would you end up with a movie that's
really much different from like the blob
if you did that well that's fine like
the alien meets the blah
okay I'd watch that that's no that's
such an unusual combination
let's go alien versus the blob alien
versus the blob okay what about humans
who accidentally find the alien
homeworld and aliens talk and have
spaceships and they say things and in
their own alien like yeah and there's
eggs everywhere and everything looks
like a HR Giger nightmare that would be
an interesting concept like the aliens
we think they're animal-like that's only
because they've they've been completely
uneducated what if on their planet they
actually are highly intelligent and have
language and culture I would love to see
an alien ballerina show oh they love the
high art an alien Orchestra a bunch of
aliens are elevator and they keep
banging their heads into each other the
office building cubicles there's like an
alien alien freak show you got like the
alien Siamese twins
yeah the bearded lady alien queen now
you're going too far yeah I guess I
guess your point is good Jay aliens on
earth yeah if it's done well well which
earth which are we talking about are we
talking about as far as the the
alternate endings of alien resurrection
are we talking oh yeah where earth is
like a shit hole now or a happy clean
mysterious earth or shit hole earth
there's two ending or modern day earth
but what's the other end email in
resurrection
there's to end the one I saw is there
entering Earth's atmosphere and that's
the end of the movie yeah that's the
theatrical cut they enter Earth's
atmosphere and then you see Ripley and
call are standing in the window yeah and
then you know you see like this the
glistening oceans and the land the
continents from above yeah and then
she's like earth call says I'm earth
I've never been here and Ripley says I
you know I I'm a stranger here myself to
alternate ending is it cuts to them and
they have the exact same conversation
sitting amongst like garbage and then
it's
cuts back and you see like the Eiffel
Tower like in pieces and just like
garbage and destruction everywhere and
Earth is this like a wasteland of
garbage almost like that that movie is
called wall-e yeah where it's just
garbage everywhere
well I okay yeah having to battle aliens
in a post-apocalyptic earth would be
interesting to me mmm
hasn't Ridley Scott says that he sees it
as being the same universe as Blade
Runner
oh god I'm wrong as he said that no idea
I think you dreamt that okay don't think
don't they mention the the Wayland
corporation somewhere in Blade Runner I
don't know I always fall asleep after
the first 10 minutes now everybody's
shutting off this commentary I don't
know a fan don't like Blade Runner I
don't know if Androids Dream of Electric
Sheep but I do I watched Blade Runner
only real nerds get that joke right rich
any guy that drinks right junk well I'm
the same with the chains wire change why
is there so much water why is there an
ancient medieval torture chamber on the
spaceship and it's not time to cool down
Harry Dean Stanton there's an alien
around me if this is a cooling chamber
wouldn't that water be like very hot oh
my god such a nerd such a nerd did this
movie invent the cat jump scare that's a
that's a very good possibility but I
think that might be the 1929 film the
creepy black cat starring Bela Lugosi
oh okay so I think you're wrong all
right all right I think you're wrong
was it called rich Evans has has Captain
Kirk lighting from Star Trek no if you
can't see this and I'm sure you can't
it's like the Sun setting and it's
casting a perfect little sliver of light
right across your eyes
inside the Captain Kirk original Star
Trek light very cinematic anyways okay
so here's the alien yeah we finally get
a glimpse of the alien here's our beauty
shot of the alien head which they
completely redesign for aliens yeah it
has like weird ridges and stuff all over
it well James Cameron is such an
egomaniac he didn't want to go to HR
Giger he's like I wanted the HR Giger
will want to have input into the design
of the alien queen and he can't I have
to because I'm James Cameron really HR
Giger had no he had nothing to do with
they they went back to him for alien 3
yeah and he came up with concepts that
were so fucking bizarre they're like no
thanks for alien 3 for alien 3 like he
wanted to have like a puma like alien
with claws and he wanted an alien where
it had like a like a woman's mouth like
a woman's lips and like a human tongue
like really weird shit cuz he's HR Giger
yeah and they're like okay and they
slowly backed out of the room yeah can
we talk about alien 3 real quick before
I forget because there's one element
that I hate hey I know what you're
talking about and you know what is it J
is that the the compositing of the alien
in it yeah well yes well okay I don't
know I don't know that much about the
backstory of alien 3 I'm sure it was a
clusterfuck studio clusterfuck like to
say yeah but I watched the special
edition I keep calling a special edition
isn't that a George Lucas thing yeah he
has like copy written these directors
cuts not the director's cut the the
assembly cut is I think is the official
term for it okay whatever
the longer version the version with but
it's not longer exactly there's some
there's stuff added there's the opening
scene when the the doctor finds Ripley
on the beach this is great and that's
that's so great looking that yeah the
whole film looks beautiful it's it's I
think the most gorgeous alien movie oh
sure it's it's so nice except for the
alien when it runs around it looks
so bad yeah I like incredible I like the
fact that because the problem with the
alien likes a great design but when you
put a guy in a suit it looks like a guy
in a rubber suit and I like with that
when they went with like a rod puppet
for a lot of the wide-shots the whole
body shot it's a miniature puppet shot
on green-screen yeah I'm like a blue
screen or something but yeah with like
like rods in the arms yeah make it move
around and I like that because it makes
it less human-like but yeah the
compositing is really bad so bad yeah I
think when I saw in the theater I
thought it was like early CGI because
that was around Jurassic Park time ish
yeah yeah after that no no it's you know
it looks so bad yeah I was undescribable
and then Jay because I love the way it
moves and all that well are the
close-ups of the the costume and them
the practical stuff looks so great yeah
the rest of the movie looks great and
then when you cut to those shots they
are so it's almost like they're like
temporary yeah I'm compositing a rough
composite like a rough composite of
something that some guy shot in his in
his office just to make sure looked
right and then in the assembly cut the
origin of the alien is completely
different
yeah at Racal version yeah the
theatrical version is rottweiler yeah I
like a dog a dog has the face on here
and then it bursts from the dog and then
completely brand-new scene in this is
the guys pulling in a cow an ox right an
ox yeah a cattle or whatever I don't
know if you've seen this or not III can
see that the attributes yeah because
they establish that they they raise
livestock for their food yeah in some of
those earlier shots which are cut out
but then the chestburster comes out of
that and they do the whole like um the
funeral scene where Charles has dozens
yeah they're intercutting that which is
great yeah that's great but it's
completely different footage of an alien
bursting from a cow then whenever they
show this alien and of course the alien
is tall it's 8 feet tall whatever
normally but they keep calling it like
this that big motherfucker that big
beast yeah they they keep referring to
its size yeah and I thought like was the
alien an alien 3 because it was
from a big cow was it supposed to be a
larger bulkier alien and I thought that
was a great thing yeah but then then
also it's were a birth from a dog yeah
and then the puppet is like a sleeker
smaller spider like alien which one is
it here's my question though why would
they change it why why film the Ox stuff
and then use the dog or because they
thought it was easier to shoot a little
puppet running across instead of a guy
in a bigger costume I really don't know
I don't know if there's answers to these
questions there there's there is there's
a lot Oh before we miss it we're coming
up on the scene where the alien tries to
give Tom Skerritt a hug oh god yes but
no I highly recommend the alien box at
blu-ray the behind-the-scenes
documentary about alien 3 because it's
really frank and honest about what a
clusterfuck that movie will talk about
that at all I believe they do I don't
remember the exact okay Oh cancer but
they do talk about it because to me it
nobody was like constant reshoots
constant rewrites
okay sure it's amazing that it came out
comprehensible at all but um yeah I mean
they they spent weeks building sets and
then they completely rewrote the script
so they had all these existing sets that
had no play side to figure out how to
make it work and it's really a disaster
and David Fincher's has completely
disowned it here's the scanner the
motion tracker that looks exactly like
the motion tracker from aliens I rich I
know you're a fan of Fight Club did he
ever notice because that's David Fincher
in one of the montages when they're in
the video store and they're like erasing
all the VHS tapes
yep that it's an entire end cap of alien
3 oh really yeah as far as I know that's
the only time he's ever commented on
alien 3 because he's just completely
disowned that movie not having ever
given that much thought to alien 3 I
don't know that I get it struck me that
he was the same director until after I'd
already seen Fight Club yeah so yeah it
was his first feature and he just got
completely fucked over that makes sense
right but you know the first time
director gets pushed around by the
studio I suppose the studio needs to
learn not to push everyone around well
it's like okay you hire David Fincher
because you want to make a David Fincher
movie you know like I like this guy
style he had done a ton of music videos
it's like let's let him make his feature
and then you're just constantly
second-guessing him and changing every
decision he makes and it's like well I
hire just hire a Brett Ratner type who's
just gonna be a yes-man and do whatever
you want
yeah maybe they just don't know you're
an auteur I mean he wasn't like a
well-established filmmaker at that point
but they hired him because they liked
his visual style and his sensibilities
visual style yeah yeah but then they
come in and they say this cost too much
change this yeah this isn't gonna play
well change that you know then that
happened with this movie too sure the
fuck yeah I mean any any big movie there
is going to be like compromises and
changes and the movies at work it's
everybody working together there was to
make it be that pace unless you're a
shitty director then you got like free
range to do what you want that's true
your mic sham lands yeah Michael Bay
nobody's telling him what to do anymore
yeah because you got to prove that your
film will make a ton of money then maybe
that's it that's the key that's the key
I love that corridor set yeah it's so
grimy and dark muscle phobic yeah
everything feels so and I think this was
somewhat influenced by Star Wars and
that all this stuff he also lived in
here it isn't real look at prop yeah
great props great everything great sound
design the only thing that's not great
is the destruction of the Nostromo at
the end yeah that looks so bad this is
when I first got a surround sound system
my go-to movies to test it out were this
an aliens
just cuz this one we just has that like
constant like industrial droning sounds
like I love that kind of thing Veronica
Cartwright crying all the time what a
useless character she was the character
that we connected with because all of us
would feel the same way as her that's
true
yeah but not bad it's not realistic yeah
I'd be crying like I'd be curled up in a
corner just waiting waiting for
everybody to get killed before me
actually know what I probably would have
gotten on the escape pod a long time
question let's all get on the escape pod
yeah do you remember the escape pod
let's get on that there's gonna be more
than one escape pod I mean having an
escape pod and it's just like one
cryopod in it that wouldn't make any
sense it's gotta be enough room for all
of them to escape hmm there's some sort
of horrific disaster on this ship yeah I
suppose so like being rampage by a
monster let's get on the escape pod and
everyone take 20 minutes to really make
sure the aliens not on it I think I
think two deaths escape pod yeah yeah
yeah once they start getting picked off
yeah we this killing this thing is not
as easy as we thought let's get the fuck
out of here and we don't even have to
blow the ship up and then the company
won't be upset yeah just say just wait
for the things starve and die and then
we'll go back yeah or just take the
escape button so he'll listen we left
the ship there that's an alien on it you
guys come back and get it well the real
reason of course ash has ulterior
motives here so there is that yeah well
what is what is particular eros motives
because if they get in the escape pod
you still know where the alien is and
you can send a team to pick up the alien
I'm the Nostromo later well ash was an
early Android who malfunctions so maybe
he was not smart enough to come up with
these ulterior like scenarios he does
snap pretty easily once Sigourney Weaver
pushes it oh yeah then he grabs a porno
magazine
to shove it down her throat which was
not scripted
there was an accident bilbo baggins was
just really pissed at Sigourney Weaver
that day yeah well just in Ridley
Scott's like just film it film it it's
great we use it oh she's going into the
Christmas light room I really want to
shove this porno mag down your throat
this looks like like nanos living room
like a Christmas nightmare versus
Grandma's house it was a Christmas
nightmare 22 24 hours a day 365 days a
year
every day's Christmas that was only 364
for some reason she turned them all off
on Christmas yeah that's not true now
here you can see like a reflection of
text on her face which I'm guessing is
supposed to be from the monitor she's
looking at and it looks completely
different than the texts were seen cyan
something yeah you know this is probably
just something like was reflecting in
her face I don't know I think that those
are might be unrelated lights okay
they've look like letters yeah there
might be letters from a different
interface unrelated to the screen
because you don't get reflections of
text from a screen on your face how did
they ever change
I know realistically that wouldn't
happen but but Ridley Scott's a a visual
guy
yeah here's another part I wish I could
see this movie for the first time when
his head comes off yeah it's so great
and I love the design of the Android
like his guts it's not just like typical
robot parts it's like milk and like
condoms like it looks like weird rubber
tubes and yeah it's like it like some
sort of organic matter make makes sense
if you want to make something that looks
like a human yeah but I think we're
getting ahead of ourselves here because
he hasn't set off yet but there's that
eight line from Yaphet Kotto where he's
like ash was a goddamn Android and it
sounds like he says it off camera it so
it's clearly like 80-yard and it's like
that's the studio saying we have to
explain what this milkman is yeah
they're not gonna get them it's a robot
I think he was just filled with come
he's not an Android he was just very gay
very very gay
yeah watching that like what is that
going down his head like this would be
so great no way I'll rip your hair out
yeah this is a great scene
yeah and so much of his shot like like
the cameraman doesn't know what's gonna
happen you know that's like just trying
to keep up oh my God look out for those
trinkets children's mobiles this this is
someone this little area children's toys
and porn some nudie pictures I'm he
finds the porno magazine they blew that
out when they when they aired this on TV
I would think they would have to I don't
know that's a good question
it's so small in the frame mm-hmm was
there I don't think there was ever an
aliens cartoon series was there not
alien aliens cuz that was the one that
everybody liked today a toy siree
I remember the toys that's what made me
think of it I don't think there was a
cartoon okay yeah they made toys out of
every violent r-rated movie in the 80s
that's fine that's a great thing
there was Rambo dolls Robocop Robocop
cartoon show yeah yeah there was a Rambo
I'd want to see there was an alien's
cartoon show no I remember the toy line
I think it was called like Space Marines
or something like that it was it was
centered around the marine characters
cartoon that didn't exist or the Tauri
toys that was the toy line was about it
was focused on the Marines I remember
they had a lot of different varieties of
alien oh man I'm a bull alien with horns
yeah I remember that oh there we go he's
flipping out and that the head is just
flopping around it's great yeah this is
like nightmare see all really good
effects yeah yeah most of the effects in
this still hold up I don't know well the
the ship shots look you know there's
like that thick black composite line
around them there's some of that but all
the practical stuff still looks pretty
great this upcoming had seen though does
not hold up yeah there's a really
awkward edit
and it's funny I was listening to the
Ridley Scott commentary and he makes a
point of saying how proud he is of that
edit he's like this is a very very good
edit here it's like oh that's funny it's
like the worst that in the movie show me
show me this thing yeah it's it's when
they they they hook him back up to make
him start talking yeah they have the
rubber head they keep it keeps falling
over and they keep trying to set it up
and then it cuts to Ian Holmes had yeah
thing and it's like almost the exact
same perspective so it's really awkward
though yeah I think they had a
functioning rubber head with like that
would kind of work then stopped working
mm-hmm and then so they used the actor I
think that's what the case was kind of
like that the bishop had an alien 3 in
the garbage that animatronic bishop had
looks really good yeah so here's this
yeah I think we cut from this and then
it won't sit up sit up and then oh my
god yeah but still listening I think
though as editors ourselves we would say
let's put a little cutaway in between
mate yeah cut to that there them moving
the head or something the cutting back
to a very similar shot of the real head
is a little awkward proud enough to you
know we thought that it matched up but
well according to the commentary Ridley
Scott thinks it's seamless so it's
perfect absolutely perfect
well you know the pretty flawless movie
you can take one little tiny floss yeah
all right with that well that's the seed
that led to things like Prometheus what
now now we see programs just to bring
any alien life form they find back home
or do they actually corporation know
about the space jockey already oh God
they couldn't of
well the company just said go
investigate this signal and then maybe
he was secretly transmitting what's
happening to them yeah I think that's
the idea yeah this is a very unsettling
shot why it's just this extreme closeup
and he's covered in white goo I don't
driven it's very ugly looking oh oh
that's what you mean that's what I mean
see even the camera is uncomfortable
he's starting to zoom out
oh by Bilbo Baggins that hat we're real
that's had a smile on it like the the
big furry monster thing in labyrinth do
you know I'm talking about I can't
remove that character's name but the
David Bowie I've seen labyrinth once oh
really yeah dad Brenna
that's so cool though our skin peels
away yeah yeah just get in the escape
pod that's a big plot hole that you
discovered that mentions why they don't
it's possible they're doing that now
aren't they oh yeah you're right they
are yeah they're going to get more like
fuel or something
they have to fill that card up with yeah
I just might have started a little bit
sooner if it were made yeah that's
always the thing in like haunted house
movies too is like why need just get out
of the house yes one of those things you
just kind of have to accept that that's
the previs maybe it could you could you
try and like lure the alien into an
escape pod and then jettison it that
sounds pretty dangerous though that's
what they do an alien 3 I want I
wouldn't want to get anywhere near that
thing
well yeah but they have all these big
corridors and stuff this place is way
more claustrophobic just throw a bunch
of meat no escape pod and let's see what
it does yeah I guess they don't know
that it's trying we're not trying to
just eat people yeah or just putting
like a cart right in there
yeah for curve draw straws and alien 3
they set up a complicated system to lure
him into a like a nuclear waste bunker
that has like 650 steel door that yeah
you know they go on there and they look
around like yeah yeah like this was a
great place to strap the Elian because
they're waiting for three days for a
rescue ship to them that they should
have all gone inside the bunker and
close the door for three days then the
rescue comes yeah bring a bunch of food
you know that's six months just three
days some flashlights you know I thought
it was longer than three days at that
point it was three days okay well we're
three days for the they say like we get
a supply ship every six months but the
the fast-tracked of things were Ripley
okay now the cat fuck the kit yeah she
loves that cat that goddamn cat okay
they even bring that stupid cat back in
the second movie fuck that cat probably
a different cat I'm sure this cat is
dead before they felt that well I'm not
talking about in real life in the movie
they have the character of Jonesy come
back what happened minute Kevin three
David's no I should leave it on earth
who keep it leaves it on earth okay she
says and you should have you're staying
here that's okay yeah so the cat's the
only one who lives one of the one of the
inmates on fury 161 or whatever yeah one
of the inmates
I love Charles s Dutton in that movie
he's really good everyone's really good
in it yeah I love that Ripley gets a
little kind of romance early on it's
like Oh something positive has finally
happened to Ripley yeah of course that
guy dies cuz everybody dies she just
flat-out tells him that she wants sex
yeah it's great it's realistic like that
she's been through so much shit
yeah she's like do you find me
attractive and he's like what say cuz
it's been a long time I've been floating
around in space
yeah I'm dealing with aliens and they're
done yeah it's like oh I guess they
fucked yeah cuz really yeah there was
never any sexuality in any of these
movies now until that seemed and then
that was it and even that's not
presented as like it's not like a you
don't see a sex scene or no no it's very
clinical mmm which makes sense for David
Fincher which makes sense because it
takes place in the infirmary womp womp
ma there's that goddamn cat are you
providing your own soundtrack to the
movie no I think so
there's Jonesy Sigourney Weaver was
allergic to the cat is that a fact
ya know didn't it turn out that it
wasn't the cat it was it was a why Joey
it was it was yeah something would like
the the fake perspiration that there was
per year or something yeah she thought
it was like she thought it was the cat
Oh rich is a big fan of aliens when you
did see alien 3 the one time you saw it
yeah how horrified were you by the the
noot autopsy scene where they're just
ripping open her dead body the one the
more frightening part is when they show
Newton the the cryo chamber and she's
like frozen in terror oh yeah and they
show Hicks and he's like unrecognizable
yeah I don't even remember honestly I'm
gonna have to rewatch this the head is
completely blow it off yeah what
happened to his head
what happened any alien attacked him in
their sleep there was an alien in the in
the pod well not an alien alien right
it's a hugger face Sawyer yeah on the
face hugger take his head off or I guess
it melted it kind of melted or it got
crushed in the impact of that's true
yeah I could have been the crashing TeV
crashing I don't really sit they don't
really say they say Newt drum drownded
yeah water but yeah see he wants a hug
again look at him that's hell needs more
articulation yeah you can do that easy I
know yeah you can do that you can do
that with CGI I was thinking about that
INRI watching aliens that the famous
Ripley and a power loader suit fighting
the queen alien it's very clunky modern
standards I think I actually don't like
the Queen all that much no just because
it's I I love practical effects I you
know I can't overstate that but so that
suit just they're not that suit it's
like a giant marionette almost like
animatronic slash Mary nut and it's
really awkward looking like when it's
running and stuff it just looks like a
row of the Queen alien in motion you
mean yeah when I
I think the design is fine but whenever
it's actually moving it looks really
phony to be really because the last time
I watched that like two or three years
ago I remember thinking it held up
especially well really yeah oh yeah I
never thought it looked all that great
I like the Queen alien I like the Queen
alien I like I like that it's a little
silly but I like that idea that they set
up the power loader suits oh and and
that she goes and gets in that to fight
the Queen alien it's very simple it's
like there's two she smacks him with the
left arm smacks and what the right arm
grabs her yeah and then then the tail
whips once tail whips again and then she
turns out little heat yeah and that's it
yeah and I was just thinking if you know
I don't want something like an old
fuddy-duddy you know on a modern movie
that modern movie it would go on for
twenty minutes and there they'd be it'll
be more flips early flipping and jumping
and smashing and you know just like then
you get bored and again don't want
something like a grandpa now but all I
needed was two smacks across the face a
choke with the with the claw and some
tail whipping and some tail with
restraints yeah and then to them and
when they film that was probably this
huge pain in the ass
oh yeah because they come probably
couldn't do it but it wasn't we're
running in this power loader suit down
the corridor jumping the alien then
falling down this huge cavern and then
then the power loader has a jetpack on
the back and it didn't need that this is
this is what we talk about is what we're
talking about what we say that CGI is
just not done well it's not the CGI
itself it's how they use it yeah to do
all that extra shit you don't need lots
of things are done simply because they
can be yes yes which is mostly every
movie now which is why most movies now
or like a horrible headache yeah for me
like that film that film called the Man
of Steel Oh God that's the worst example
the worst modern example living
nightmare
oh I need to see a Superman
kind of pick up a bus guy and a phone
booth falls over the bus is clearly on
some kind of hydraulics he grabs onto it
by the bumper in reality the bumper
would just rip off somehow the bus up
smoke machine blowing some wind some
newspapers got it I thought so yeah the
neill blomkamp film will have lots of
power loader suits
I predict that because he loves giant
machines yeah that's true
so there's gonna be there's gonna be a
fight between 500 people and power
loaders and 500 Queen aliens yeah and
they're all gonna fight each other that
was that was what that was the original
alien 3 scripts
know what Oh tell us more I have read
about like an early treatment for that I
was gonna sit around Hicks and not
Ripley for some reason in the end was
gonna be just literally like 50 power
loaders versus 50 alien Queens yeah
really
yes I was just joking no no that was the
thing I read that's the sequel mentality
we want the same but more was this like
a James Cameron was kind of sort of
gonna do it Wow details because I don't
remember them because the judges
remember so that that last bit was so
absurd and stuck in my memory I go they
were gonna do what this wasn't like fan
fiction right this was like a legit was
legit I'm talking about before you know
they actually hadn't conquered idea what
they were gonna do just talking about it
what are we gonna do for the sequel what
about like a treatment not even like a
really a this.j speaking of aliens yes
aliens use this a lot a lot of rear
screen projection
I noticed yes in lieu of blue screen
yeah James Cameron did that a lot with
his movies yeah I guess I noticed that
young as a younger person watching it
but it looks pretty good it looks okay
there's a couple parts you can tell but
I I think it's better than you know
shooting them on back then
bluescreens yeah and you have that hard
black matte line when you try and
composite it he did a lot in Terminator
2 like during some of the car chase
stuff mmm but it's like it's out of
focus in the background it's you know
and I it's effective I think I think it
works better than just a green screen or
blues car yes for the people and
listening to this who are under 48 years
old what is rich screen projection it's
when they have a gigantic screen that's
and then there is a projector but
instead of the projector forward playing
film footage it's behind it and as
reversed so that there's the light
doesn't hit the actors in here yeah and
then your actors and your little set
pieces are in front of that yeah it's
the way they would do chroma stuff
before that yeah so someone driving in a
car there'd be a screen projected it's
like cutting the middle man out of the
blue screen yeah but like Rick Lee's
going down the elevator and and camera
shaking and there's footage putting
played on a screen behind her and I
think even the when the the airplane
crashes yeah that's like a part where it
kind of looks like it's not as it's not
because it's too wide of a shot and and
it's it it always looks a little not
dark enough yeah to be realistic but
there's a shot that's clearly a green
screen shot you know when for some
reason ripley demonstrates that she can
work the power loader yeah and then
there and then they need to have another
one in the background for some reason
and then it's clearly on a green screen
and it looks terrible I don't remember
that where do you want it she's holding
the bomber that seemed better yeah it
just looks awful huh but yeah the the
some of the miniatures and aliens are a
little sketchy some of those don't hold
up I noticed that last time I watched it
and there's also lots of fishing line
visible did you notice that yeah you pay
attention in scenes with the aliens like
tail whipping or whatever like the Queen
there's a couple parts where you see
very visible fishing line monofilament
as if cold in the biz well I don't think
they use actual fishing line
who knows I don't know what their budget
was fluoride for wires that hold up
alien tails is it as bad as Tim Burton's
Batman when Batman jumps and picks up
Vicki Vale where they use like rope that
looks so bad I don't remember those if
you want to look it up look it up or the
black the black hole where they're all
the older og is is them on strings see
like their pants like pulled up oh yeah
that's all great they need a heavy-duty
rope to hold up Ernest Borgnine yeah
this entire ending here with with Ripley
just running around by yourself this is
like drop of that cat all over the
places that you can't hurt that cat
should be thankful that it's getting any
attention at all
the cat is low priority yeah not for
Ripley for summary doesn't know that
though the cat's just why are you
throwing me around it's Jax that's true
that looks great that ml dove although
this film who knows they probably built
a full-scale ship and she's really in it
I don't know yeah this whole ending with
Ripley running around by yourself this
is like the last hour of aliens where
it's just like non-stop intensity just
gotta go back for Newt I mean even early
on that everything once once the aliens
first show up in aliens like the rest of
that movie just flies by oh yeah
accepting the director's cut there's
that hard matte line I was talking about
you could see there that shot you're
stitching negative Nelly J no no I'm
just not the hugest fan of aliens aliens
are so fucking awesome I like it I like
aliens a lot I don't want to come across
like I don't okay here's the Nostromo
explosion which I don't know what to
make of this
it's fine it's fine
no it's not fine rich not fine one ring
would fly off you they need to add a
ring I believe that's actually like a
series of paintings if I recall from the
commentary yeah well it sucks like a lot
of people worked really hard on that it
keeps happening oh this is the end of
2001 yeah it becomes a 2001
I guess I guess he's gonna look over and
she'll see herself as an elderly person
laying in a bed what happened in
prometheus a lot of convoluted thing
Michael Fassbender was an alien or an
Android he's an Android
yeah did and then his secret goal was to
just to get the alien goo right no he
was trying to help the old man become
immortal with alien goo I remember lots
of things involving alien goo and lots
of creatures being created through
different combinations of people and
aliens and black goop Michael Fassbender
get like ripped apart he I believe he's
just a head at the end of them you know
but how did that happen I know I don't
remember now they're making another
Prometheus there my previous to and
alien 5 at the same time apparently who
is Ridley Scott doing Prometheus - yes
really he's doing that and I believe
he's producing aliens now is is is Damon
Lindelof and friends writing it I don't
hurt ceman I don't think those guys are
allowed to write anymore remember that
when they are writing every movie and
now you don't hear about him at all
anymore because people hated those
movies but they made money and that's
all that matters yeah Alex Kurtzman is
he oh no he dropped out of Star Trek 3
yes because there is an online push to
have Jonathan Frakes maker
that's a bit he do a great job sure and
I think I think the new rumor is is that
Simon Pegg is writing Star Trek 3 yes
so you've been written yet I think
folding it tomorrow I don't know it
doesn't matter anymore right then Shan
are supposed to be in it if alien 3 has
taught us anything it's that you don't
need a completed script before you start
shooting the movie everything will be
fine
this always struck me as slightly
uncomfortable the fact that she has
never underwear pulled up all the way
well this whole like yeah it almost
seems like this is I don't know like
she's extra vulnerable let's see how
this is a slasher movie trope well yeah
but before slasher movie tropes existed
this year but I mean it's the same idea
she's vulnerable
I guess it's Janet Leigh in the shower
and psycho what fuck is that a reference
to it's a reference to Janet Leigh in
the shower and psycho she's vulnerable
what a movie about a psycho what was it
called
now here a lot of birds oh yeah you um
Oh or it looks like it's a part of the
ship and it's not just that but um like
I love the fact that it's just like
laying in there yeah it's it was napping
it's tired from killing everybody I
guess it's very insect like well yeah
there's a nasty bug somewhere you don't
know where it's at oh yeah yeah where
it's not it's it's almost like not an
intelligent creature like as it's been
set up to be mm-hmm
like before it's like sneaking up on
people and hi and killing them and it's
just like it knows that she's there yeah
but it's just like laying in there oh
yeah
it's creepy yeah oh yeah yeah this whole
ending that cos Giants like cockroaches
on your ship that can murder you
huh and I don't know what the movies
logic is for it to be hiding in there
but just it wants to find a way to I
always interpret it that it is just
sleeping hmm cuz like here it doesn't
even seem to notice that she's there it
just wanted to choose the escape pod to
sleep sure why not no but no no they set
up that it knows that she's going to the
skate pot because oh that trains the cat
yeah yeah and it figures out that she's
coming back for that or something like
there that's true if this uh this
underwear stuff feels very exploitive
feels this shot here yeah especially
Ridley Scott is a sex pervert of course
obviously like yeah first movies gotta
do something to make a head cuz I wonder
if a producer came in yeah you get this
lady in her underwear i I don't know I
think it is just a case of just an easy
way to make her seem more vulnerable she
thinks everything's over
I'm sure her what she was wearing was
super fucking sweaty so she's been
running around they need the low angle
crotch shot and the boobs sticking out
of the shirt what she's wearing this is
a nice shot I guess it's more tasteful
than the wet t-shirt machine in what was
the name of that movie alien alien
really from the deep man which has some
similarities to aliens mmm-hmm some they
was shot on the film had people in it it
had a giant awkward marionette creature
at the end just like the end of aliens
hey watch it you say awkward
I still say those effects hold up a lot
of them do in that movie and a lot of
them do in this movie but the the
articulation of the alien queen always
kind of false to me maybe in a couple
shots there's one shot when it runs that
that's where yeah that's one of the ones
where I think it looks we reads it's
neat he's taking a nap
that's what you do after you have a
large meal
he's like I'm all full from Harry Dean
Stanton I'm gonna lay down for a little
bit but it does the alien eat people or
just kill them I think he does kill them
and somebody eats some of them yes eat
something how do you assume it's some
what facts are you going on because okay
okay here's the conservation of like
energy and matter
it starts off small it gets big somehow
that matter is coming from somewhere it
eats something it gets big before it
eats night rumor it kills anything
that's true that's true
yeah maybe it gets into their food
supply maybe it doesn't eat people maybe
ate their rations that's a possibility I
supposed alien does grow very rapidly
from yeah from a chest burster to a
full-sized alien if that whole process
took took 12 years thing alien would be
defeated very quickly
see now he's waking up he's like what
the fuck no a smoke in my face I wish my
head wasn't so big if you'd have done
this whole commentaries just you
speaking for the alien just a
misunderstood creature glad you hung all
these chains here it was easy for me to
hide Ilana I just want a hug
Wow God don't you shoots it with a dart
a cable when I catches on to the cable
oh no yeah this is that's a little B
movie that's that's a little bit over
yeah but that's all right maybe we give
a credit we've come this far it's okay
at this point started getting the engine
that's all right burns it up in the
engine
they're so nice to play too thrice it's
the exact ending of aliens without
without crying and up into the engine
you know I always bugged me about aliens
is that the whole time there's two
things yeah the whole time she's
constantly going Newt close your eyes
Newt do this dude except for the end
when she opens the fucking cargo bay
door it doesn't bother no hang on to
something she looks like she'll figure
it out a couple seconds be funny if they
want like flying pasture and then in
order to close the outer hatch door she
has to climb up to the top instead of
using the same thing she fucking opened
it with like Ripley's looking out the
airlock she seems like nude flying
towards the Queen and the Queen grabs
nude rips Newton hats exactly like it
rips odd what's the face on that Bishop
yeah
Bishop flies past you too he's still
sleeping
I can finally sleep peacefully now and
then she wakes up again and falls into
another nightmare mmm and then she wakes
up a third time and it's another
nightmare and then she kills herself
yeah and that's the story of Ripley that
makes you laugh that's the funny thing
about the story that makes you when I
watch the movies like talking about it
now I'm joking around of course but when
I watch the movies I'm not laughing
during alien 3 the alien 3 is just a
pressing debate it's very depressing
that's why a lot of people don't I don't
I don't like things that make me
depressed I am I mean and I'm depressed
enough by my life Oh what
what alien 3 is depressing but it's
beautifully shot yes obviously yeah yes
except for the awful looking shots of a
alien running around it's a great film
yeah I don't mind the depression okay
that's fine it is nice when she wakes up
and she's like where have the others
oh they they're dead everybody's dead
what and they bellow computer readout
you know Hicks dad yeah new dad mm-hmm
such a kick to the groin yeah
after all she went through in aliens dad
I can understand what other people enjoy
it I mean is horror franchise it's just
not for me
sure the whole franchise the horror the
three the depressing stuff oh you just
like that actually yeah I mostly I
mostly just like aliens yeah I think
there's a lot of people like that yeah
and that's why after the failure of
alien 3 they did Alien Resurrection
which was meant to be more of an action
II type movie again and I guess that's
what the Neill Blomkamp wants to do too
everybody wants to recreate the magic of
aliens instead of just making their own
movie that's Hollywood today I know I
know
yeah only through a bizarre it's a
bizarre choice yeah well that's that's
those three movies as road alien 3
everybody
it went through like 20 droughts but
like whose original idea was it you know
I don't it might have been Walter Hill
and David Guyler I'm not sure I know
they ended up writing the final scripts
but it went through tons of people tons
of rewrites there's all these different
drafts all these different writers but
at some point someone's gotta say I
think she should crash land on a penal
colony yeah it's a bunch of British guys
with lice good life and make it just
miserable yeah yeah I coming off of
aliens that is such a bizarre choice but
coming off of alien to make aliens what
it was that's kind of a risky choice too
yeah to completely change the tone and
style of it so that's why it's an
interesting franchise and why it's kind
of an underdog it's never been a
star wars or you know any of the bigger
series and it's good that sequels try to
be something different yes most of
exactly the same movie right
I don't know well that's our take on
alien sort of and all the rest of the
alien films except for alien versus
Predator Requiem oh yeah we still have
not seen that one that's gonna be our
next commentary track is it yeah yeah I
guess vs. predator film they made alien
vs. predator and then they followed it
up with alien vs. predator Requiem
requiem for a dream alien vs. predator
requiem for a dream it's about the
aliens getting addicted to drugs and
trying to be on a game show yeah okay
that's for him thank you for listening
to our commentary track good night
everybody good night and good night and
good luck and good luck
